Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) referenced Trump’s alleged conversation with the Ukrainian president when she spoke to voters Saturday.“Just in the last 48 hours, yet again, we find that he is in cahoots with a foreign government to manipulate the outcome of this election for president of the United States,” Harris said.Harris’s moves also come at a critical moment in the campaign calendar.For Harris, the renewed Iowa focus suggests her strategists, who once felt she had many paths to the nomination, are seeing those options dwindle.South Carolina, for example, was initially viewed as a promising target for Harris, who could then use her momentum to vault into the rest of the primary season.AD

AD

Harris’s plan for frequent Iowa appearances will not preclude efforts in South Carolina, where she will also campaign this weekend.But it does represent a major pivot for Harris, who spent most of the last months crisscrossing the country to big-dollar fundraisers to the exclusion of more regular campaigning.Although her campaign was the first to buy television ads in Iowa and she staged a five-day bus tour there in August, Harris had not campaigned in Iowa in five weeks as of Thursday morning — a longer drought than any of the leading candidates.Harris, a senator from California, has also been scarce recently in other early primary states like New Hampshire, where she’s appeared once in the last two months, and South Carolina, which she has not visited in more than two months.AD

But Harris has struggled to turn her attention-grabbing campaign launch into consistent momentum.But Harris has not been in front of early-state voters as much as the other candidates.And now Harris’s donors are increasingly concerned about her prospects, while the campaign is seeking to dampen expectations for fundraising in the year’s third quarter.AD

“She has consistently been in the top four or five [in the polls], but with the acknowledgment that we’ve got to get her out there more,” said Harris communications director Lily Adams.The poll showed Harris slipping 13 points from where she stood after staging an emotional attack on Biden in the first Democratic debate, after which Harris described herself as a “top-tier” candidate.AD

Harris’s advisers have long seen Biden as the rival she needs to beat, particularly when it comes to African American voters.AD

Her campaign has demonstrated a belief — as evidenced in part by her strategy in the first two debates — that Harris can pry voters away from the former vice president, particularly if he falters.“Our strategy is going to be to get [Harris] out there more, and make sure that she’s like right up in people’s face when they’re making that decision.”

Even so, Harris has faced ongoing questions about her central message and reason for running, something many voters have said she has not made as clear as some competitors have.AD

AD

In the last debate, Harris often looked directly at the camera and challenged President Trump rather than her Democratic rivals, something her advisers say reflects her argument that the former California attorney general is the best candidate to “prosecute the case against four more years of Donald Trump.”

Harris has also touted — and spent her Iowa advertising dollars explaining — a “3 a.m. agenda,” her plan to address the issues “that keep Americans up at night.” She’s sought to position herself, between Biden on the one hand and the liberal Warren and Sanders on the other, as a “problem-solving” candidate who favors big change but will take practical steps to achieve it.AD

On the other hand, Adams said, “I think there are far more ideological, strict ideological candidates who I believe will contribute to the partisan rancor that we’ve seen and watched it for a long time.”

Harris intends to position herself between those two camps during the next stage of her campaign, beginning Thursday night in Coralville, Iowa.“I’m f---ing moving to Iowa,” Harris told Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) on Wednesday, pithily summing up her strategy inadvertently within earshot of reporter Matt Laslo.And as The Post’s Ellen Nakashima, Shane Harris, Greg Miller and Carol D. Leonnig again scooped Thursday night, the complaint is focused on Ukraine:

AD

A whistleblower complaint about President Trump made by an intelligence official centers on Ukraine, according to two people familiar with the matter, which has set off a struggle between Congress and the executive branch.“The complaint involved communications with a foreign leader and a ‘promise’ that Trump made, which was so alarming that a U.S. intelligence official who had worked at the White House went to the inspector general of the intelligence community,” Ellen Nakashima, Shane Harris, Greg Miller and Carol Leonnig reported.pic.twitter.com/GOwRCLyZcZ — courtney "text JOE to 30330" corbisiero (@ccorbisiero) September 18, 2019

Kamala Harris is counting on people’s wokeness to get a Democrat elected in 2020:

Kamala Harris responds to a woman who says she’s scared Democrats will lose to Trump again.On one hand, Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) knocked it out of the park:

As a 2016 candidate, Donald Trump openly encouraged a foreign adversary to hack a political opponent and attack our elections.https://t.co/sC1Rnev67k — Kamala Harris (@KamalaHarris) September 20, 2019

In an appearance, she had more to say, explaining the gravity of the situation:

.@KamalaHarris: "[Whistleblower] may feel a sense of concern that they're going to be attacked by this president, but the American people will stand with you...This is about a solemn duty that this person...to do everything we can to reinforce the integrity of our democracy.": President Trump heads to Harris County, Texas this weekend to a major rally ahead of next week's United Nations General Assembly — for Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.They hate the president and that's a powerful motivator.” There's perhaps no place that hates the president more in Texas than Harris County, which “completely inverted in 2016" from red to blue.And it's an important county, Republicans acknowledge: “Well, they say if you lose Harris County, you lose Texas … That’s the deal,” Charlotte Lampe, a Cypress precinct chairwoman involved in the county's Republican Party for decades told the Texas Tribune's Abby Livingston.(Evan Vucci/AP)

At The White House

MORE BOMBSHELL DETAILS ABOUT THE WHISTLEBLOWER COMPLAINT: “A whistleblower complaint about [Trump] made by an intelligence official centers on Ukraine, according to two people familiar with the matter, which has set off a struggle between Congress and the executive branch,” our colleagues Ellen Nakashima, Shane Harris, Greg Miller and Carol D. Leonnig scooped.Filling out the top five were Pete Buttigieg, mayor of South Bend, Ind., and Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.).Outside the Warren-Biden-Sanders triad at the top of the polls, just Booker and three other Democrats have double-digit favorables: Harris’s net rating is 39 percent, Klobuchar’s is 30 percent, O’Rourke’s is 28 percent.On Aug. 8, Harris's campaign went on the Iowa airwaves for the first time.Only a few of his rivals have commented on the back-and-forth, with Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) telling the president to “leave Joe Biden alone” and Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.)(NBC-WSJ, 900 registered voters)

Donald Trump — 41/49

Joe Biden — 37/33

Elizabeth Warren — 37/33

Bernie Sanders — 36/41

Kamala Harris — 25/32

Pete Buttigieg — 24/24

There are years when many candidates for president are popular.And like all the campaigns, they each led big parades to the stage, including Harris, who danced with a drum line and hundreds of cheering supporters.The show of force comes at a pivotal time for Harris, who has been lagging in national and Iowa polls.“I don’t know if you heard,” Harris cheekily said on the stage.“I’m moving to Iowa.”

AD

AD

Harris was not the only candidate looking to the Steak Fry for a jolt of life.Even after tangling with Harris on busing and criticism from another black candidate, Sen. Cory Booker, about Biden’s comments about working with segregationist senators, Biden is still above 40 percent with African Americans in most polls.At the onset of her campaign, Harris was criticized as not sharing enough of herself.AD

AD

Moreover, as the campaign has progressed, Harris has more overtly emphasized her connection to the African American community and posited herself as African Americans’ advocate in the halls of power.For Harris, the address marked a level of candor and earnestness about her identity as an accomplished, African American woman that we have not regularly seen on the trail.However, it would be foolish for Harris to ignore her own identity, her own career and her own experience as she asks voters to take a chance on a first-time candidate for president, a woman still in her first term in the Senate.Perhaps in fully inhabiting her role as an African American female trailblazer and a progressive insider, Harris’s will find the focus and clarity she needs.Devlin Barrett, Ashley Parker, Shane Harris, John Wagner and Felicia Sonmez in Washington contributed to this report.(That’s what Harris labeled a middle-class tax hike.)Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) said the president’s alleged phone call was “just another on the list of issues” that warrant his impeachment.Warren and Sanders held slight edges over Trump of 4 points and 5 points, respectively, while Harris had a 3-point lead, which was within the margin of error.Biden led Trump by 9 points; Sanders had a slight 4-point edge, while Warren and Harris were tied with Trump.AD

Shane Harris, Anne Gearan and Paul Sonne contributed to this report.POLL WATCH

New Hampshire Democratic primary (Monmouth, 401 likely Democratic voters)

Elizabeth Warren — 27% ( 19)

Joe Biden — 25% (-9)

Bernie Sanders — 12% (-6)

Pete Buttigieg — 10% ( 1)

Kamala Harris — 3% (-3)

Cory Booker — 2% (-)

Tulsi Gabbard — 2% ( 2)

Amy Klobuchar — 2% (-)

Tom Steyer — 2% ( 2)

Andrew Yang — 2% ( 1)

Beto O’Rourke — 1% (-1)

Marianne Williamson — 1% ( 1)

Polling in the first primary state has found (with different methodology) everything from a sizable lead for Bernie Sanders to resilient support for Joe Biden.At the moment, using these standards, just five candidates have qualified for the November debate: Joe Biden, Elizabeth Warren, Bernie Sanders, Pete Buttigieg and Kamala Harris.One item in the $391 million package Congress appropriated is a secure system made by L3 Technologies, a unit of Harris Corp., that could allow the Ukrainians to maintain contact despite Russian interference.One can’t help but be reminded of the surreal moment at a Senate hearing in May when Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) asked Barr if the president or anyone else in the White House had asked or suggested that he open an investigation of anyone.), former housing secretary Julián Castro, Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) and Sen. Cory Booker (N.J.) — also sent impeachment-themed solicitations Tuesday to their supporters.In a tweet, Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) reminds us that she asked Barr, testifying under oath, whether he had been instructed to investigate anyone.Markets are way more interested in a trade deal with China,” said Jamie Cox, managing partner at Harris Financial Group in Richmond.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), meanwhile, said the document amounted to an admission on the part of Trump.— Shane Harris (@shaneharris) September 25, 2019

Pelosi’s decision was turned into a limerick:

The public looked on in dismay

And called for impeachment each day.Sanders narrowly leads with Latinos, with 28 percent support to 26 percent for Biden and 14 for Warren; Biden leads with black voters, with 32 percent to Warren's 24 percent, Harris's 18 percent and Sanders's 11 percent.(Harris, whose mother immigrated to the United States from India, polls at only 5 percent with Asian Americans.)He has continued to campaign against the Trump administration’s waivers that allow conservative states to limit access to Medicaid, in between attacks from the president about Ukraine; he also announced a wave of endorsements from Iowa teachers as part of “Educators for Biden.”

Kamala Harris.The split endorsement was mostly an embarrassment for Harris, who had won the union's support in her California races.Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), a candidate for president, appears on MSNBC to throw a bunch of punches.(Marcus Tappan/AFP/Getty Images)

PINGED: The nation's highest-ranking intelligence official threatened to resign over concerns that the White House would try to force him to withhold information from Congress about a whistleblower complaint against the president, my colleagues Greg Miller, Shane Harris and Karoun Demirjian report.Nor has the Attorney General discussed this matter, or anything relating to Ukraine, with Rudy Giuliani.”

She added that U.S. Attorney John Durham, who has been investigating the origins of the FBI’s probe into possible coordination between the Trump campaign and Russia, is “exploring the extent to which a number of countries, including Ukraine, played a role in the counterintelligence investigation directed at the Trump campaign during the 2016 election,” per Devlin, Matt, Carol Leonnig and Shane Harris.Sen. Kamala Harris, a Democratic presidential candidate and formerly California’s attorney general, demanded that Barr testify under oath before Congress as soon as possible about his role.And: "The complaint also alleges a pattern of obfuscation at the White House, in which officials moved the records of some of Trump’s communications with foreign officials onto a separate computer network from where they are normally stored," report my colleagues Matt, Devlin, Carol D. Leonnig and Shane Harris.But the extent of the tension between the White House and Maguire over the whistleblower's complaint came to light yesterday: our colleagues Greg Miller, Shane Harris and Karoun Demirjian report that the acting director “threatened to resign over concerns that the White House might attempt to force him to stonewall Congress when he testifies Thursday about an explosive whistleblower complaint about the president, according to current and former U.S. officials familiar with the matter.”

“The officials said that [Maguire], who was thrust into the top intelligence post last month, warned the White House that he was not willing to withhold information from Congress, where he is scheduled to testify in open and closed hearings on Thursday.”

Maguire and the White House denied the story.Harris asked users, mainly in California, to sign a card thanking Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), the speaker of the House, “for showing the leadership the White House lacks by beginning an impeachment inquiry.”

Biden, who became the subject of a July conversation between Trump and the president of Ukraine, placed new ads condemning the president for soliciting help from a foreign leader to smear him.AD

“He sounds like a criminal,” Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), a presidential hopeful, told MSNBC on Thursday night.'”

AD

She continued: “It sounds like it’s straight out of some bad drama, but the fact is this is the president of the United States.”

Harris was joined by fellow Democratic candidates Sens.This is clearly somebody who knew the consequences of what he or she was doing … and they shared it through the right mechanism.”

Harris expressed concerns that Trump was failing to uphold the law and respect the system created for whistleblowers.“He sounds like a criminal,” Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), a presidential primary candidate, told MSNBC on Thursday night.When this is over, I will be the hero.”

AD

AD

10:37 a.m. Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), whose presidential campaign has been struggling to gain traction, calls for an investigation of the State Department’s apparent role in Giuliani’s meetings with Ukranian officials.Harris also addresses a tweet to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, telling him to “instruct State Department staff to preserve any communications involving” Giuliani.The president is considering stepping up his fall schedule of campaign rallies at arenas across the country to galvanize his supporters outside of Washington and portray House Democrats as liberal insiders who are focused on impeachment instead of governing.”

-- Politico co-founder John Harris, who covered Bill Clinton’s impeachment for The Post, remembers that impeachment proceedings used to be news of unquestionable gravity: “The week showed it's just more fodder for the ideological and culture wars.”

THE (FEW) REPUBLICAN DEFECTIONS:

-- Massachusetts Gov.Castro has already met the donor requirement of 165,000 individuals but hasn't met the polling requirement — or even come close.”

-- Sen. Kamala Harris, the former attorney general of California, said Giuliani should probably be disbarred.“I will do my best to look at the facts as objectively as I can.”

Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) has sought to use the impeachment inquiry to remind voters of her experience as a prosecutor and a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee.Harris canceled a recent fundraiser in Los Angeles to fly back to Washington for a meeting of the Senate Intelligence Committee, to which she also belongs.6:30 a.m.: Kamala Harris calls on Twitter to suspend Trump’s account

Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) on Monday night called for Twitter to suspend Trump’s account as he continued his attacks on the whistleblower and told reporters he was trying to “find out about” the anonymous U.S. intelligence official who filed the complaint.“The president’s tweets and his behavior about this are just further evidence of the fact that he uses his power in a way that is designed to beat people down instead of lift people up,” Harris, a 2020 Democratic White House hopeful, said during a CNN appearance.South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg and Sen. Kamala D. Harris each draw 5 percent.Sen. Kamala Harris, a California Democrat, urged Twitter to suspend President Donald Trump’s account for violating the service’s rules, while Republican Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri is battling what he considers tech companies’ bias against conservatives.That’s what happened to Kamala D. Harris.The new guidelines from Twitter came two weeks after Sen. Kamala D. Harris of California, a Democratic presidential contender, asked the company to suspend Trump’s account, claiming his online communications “put people at risk and our democracy in danger.”

AD

Appearing at the fourth Democratic presidential debate, Harris on Tuesday again assailed Twitter, charging the president had weaponized the platform “to openly intimidate witnesses” in the ongoing impeachment investigation.In response to Twitter’s updated policies, Ian Sams, a spokesman for the Harris campaign, said, “When Trump is using his tweets to make threats, incite violence and intimidate witnesses, this is insufficient.”

The request for stricter enforcement of company guidelines — and the update from Twitter — have come amid rising Democratic anger with the laissez-faire attitude adopted by technology giants toward politicians.AD

In an Oct. 1 letter to Jack Dorsey, Twitter’s chief executive, Harris, a former attorney general of California, cited examples of Trump’s tweets that disparaged the whistleblower who brought forth concerns about the president’s dealings with his Ukrainian counterpart.Harris said the messages amounted to an attempt “to target, harass, and attempt to out the whistleblower."and Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.).Democrats such as presidential candidate Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) have called for Twitter to take action on Trump’s account, which he has used to share conspiracy theories and lodge racist and sexist attacks against political opponents.Harris’s line as she stepped onstage drew both praise and accusations of pandering, as she does not usually mention her pronouns at debates or campaign events.PLEASE READ: When Sen. Harris said her pronouns were she her and her's, I said mine too.@CNN @HRC #LGBTQTownHall https://t.co/QZbL2bebmB — Protest Therapist (@ihategender) October 11, 2019

Kamala Harris declared her pronouns on such a major stage and she should be applauded but instead it was so disappointing for Chris Cuomo to mock it in that moment.(Courtesy of Jeffrey Harrison)

Many of her students recognize the same techniques and speaking style at work on the campaign trail.Read more:

Kamala D. Harris grew up in a mostly white world.Those gains for Harris have since evaporated.Harris at that point was the first pick of 7 percent of Democrats and seen as the most electable by 6 percent, so she was right on the diagonal.Harris saw both decline.Kamala Harris.In an interview with Reason, she took some credit for Harris’s decline in the polls, which began after the second debate and Gabbard’s two rounds of attacks on the California senator.“We haven’t forgotten the long distance,” said Roger Harris, executive vice president of marketing and revenue, citing improvements he said will enhance the overnight travel experience.Her son Harrison took his first Amtrak trip when he was a baby in a stroller.When Fox News anchor Harris Faulkner, who was filling in for MacCallum, gave Hahn the floor, he tore into Knowles.Kamala Harris's campaign has offered event invitations and merchandise in exchange for promoting her campaign; Andrew Yang's campaign has employed a public relations firm to create memes for influencers to share.Fox News host Harris Faulkner — subbing in for MacCallum — appeared to have trouble determining whether calling climate activist Greta Thunberg, 16, “mentally ill” was offensive.Columbine school shooters Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris were not bullied outcasts or members of the “Trench Coat Mafia.” They were not cosplaying as Neo and reenacting “The Matrix”’s climactic office lobby shootout when they shot up their school on April 19, 1999.Dhaliwal, whom his colleagues described as a “trailblazer,” owned a lucrative trucking business before he sold it to join the sheriff’s department, said Harris County Commissioner Adrian Garcia.AD

A husband and a father of three children, Dhaliwal joined the Harris County Sheriff’s Office as a detention officer and worked his way up.The Harris County sheriff in 2015 announced that Dhaliwal would be allowed to wear his religion’s beard and turban while on patrol.“He died serving the Harris County community.”

Our Harris County community loves their law enforcement officers.As was his custom, he’d brought a cassette tape, most likely Waylon Jennings or Emmylou Harris, or both.AD

“We’ve reached the point where both countries are in the same boat,” said Ethan Harris, head of global economics for Bank of America Merrill Lynch.Harris, from Bank of America, projected that the U.S. economy will only grow at about a 1 percent rate over the next six months, a painfully slow clip.Purdue University’s Ag Economy Barometer released last week found “a relatively large sentiment shift among ag producers as they were noticeably more pessimistic about current conditions on their farms and in the U.S. ag economy.”

“Farmers have been very patient,” said Larry Buss, a farmer in Harrison County, Iowa, who supports Trump.“We’re in this to the end.”

AD

Cam’Ron Harris rushed for 136 yards and N’Kosi Perry threw touchdown passes to Harris and Osborn for Miami, which needs to win three of its final five games just to become bowl-eligible.USM’s De’Michael Harris returned the opening kickoff 100 yards for a touchdown and the Golden Eagles went on to lead 27-24 at halftime.Election 2020

Portrait of Kamala Harris

Kamala Harris

Democratic candidate

Harris rose rapidly in California politics, from San Francisco district attorney to California attorney general to U.S. senator.Harris, 54, would become the first woman, the first person of Asian heritage and the first black woman to be president.In a primary field chock full of big ideas, Harris hopes her “3 a.m. agenda” will show middle-class Americans that she is the one they can count on to deliver results.Harris is now investing heavily in Iowa, hoping for a strong performance there in February.Rather, in the words of Beto O’Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, they represent the “product” for social media platforms, which “abuse that public trust … at extraordinary profits.”

For Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.), the problem stems from the current occupant of the Oval Office, who commands a massive online following, with more than 65 million users tracking the president’s comments — many of them attacks on real and perceived rivals — on Twitter.Harris has asked Twitter to suspend Trump’s account for violations of its policies against harassment and hateful conduct.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), a presidential hopeful, even suggested Trump should not be allowed to make such a remark on Twitter, sharing his “COUP” tweet with CEO Jack Dorsey.… It’s way bigger than just Steven Reed.”

AD

AD

Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), who endorsed Reed for mayor, congratulated him on Twitter “on making history in Montgomery tonight."But coming on the heels of so many instances of GOP senators’ silence in the wake of Trump’s controversies, one can forgive The Post’s Shane Harris for calling it a “Republican rebellion.” Most importantly, the president uncharacteristically refrained from lashing out at those who disagreed with him.AD

AD

BALL SECURITY

The Blue Devils will need to take better care of the ball after turning it over six times in the Pitt loss, with QB Quentin Harris responsible for five of those giveaways.— Harry Harris (@USAmbROK) October 19, 2019

The Korea Herald, an English-language newspaper based in Seoul, said Friday’s demonstration was a surprise protest by what it characterized as a “progressive civic group” of students.“This is what our little guys deal with.”

Destiny Harris, a 2019 graduate of Whitney M. Young Magnet High and an activist, battled the city for months as it prepared to turn a shuttered school into a police academy.“Chicago Teachers Union is demanding that students be treated like they matter,” said Harris, now a freshman at Howard University.But Sen. Kamala D. Harris failed to translate that momentum to the campaign trail.Harris needs an extra-strong debate performance.Like Harris, his candidacy just hasn’t gained the traction he needs to reach the first tier.AD

AD

For a little while there, Democrats — especially three Democratic senators on the committee who are running for president (Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kamala D. Harris of California and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota) — were pinching themselves, wondering if Graham actually made such an enticing offer.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) on Tuesday highlighted a potential dilemma for Giuliani as he decides whether he wants to take up Graham’s offer to testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee.In a tweet, Harris responded to Graham’s announcement on Twitter that he asked Giuliani to share his concerns “about corruption and other improprieties involving Ukraine.” “Good.I have questions,” tweeted Harris, who has earned a reputation for her aggressive questioning of witnesses before the committee, including now-Supreme Court Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh.Harris was effective in grilling multiple nominees — including Attorney General William P. Barr, who, by the way, was stumped by her question as to whether Trump ever asked or suggested he investigate someone — as was Klobuchar, who led Kavanaugh to lash out at her question about whether he had engaged in excessive drinking.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) campaigns in Des Moines on Saturday.(David Weigel/The Washington Post)

DES MOINES — Near the end of her stump speech, Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) asks Iowa Democrats to remember one of the best moments of their lives: the cold January night when they started Barack Obama's march toward the presidency.“She looked at me with a straight face and no expression,” Harris recalled at a Saturday afternoon block party in a heavily black part of Des Moines.Harris, who has built a formidable Iowa operation despite a tumble in local and national polls, urges the crowd to consider how it would feel to pull another upset and make more history — in so many words, not to choose a candidate they find less inspiring because they're scared.Harris's hurdle is that there are so many candidates with the same pitch.In the third fundraising quarter, Buttigieg raised $19.1 million, Harris raised $11.6 million and Yang raised $10 million — that is more than Joe Biden raised, in total, for the 2008 bid that ended with him becoming vice president.Buttigieg has opened 22 Iowa field offices, while O'Rourke has opened 11, Klobuchar has opened 10, Harris has opened nine, and Yang has opened two.Buttigieg and Harris stand apart in one important way: They made early splashes in Iowa, breaking out of the pack before falling back again.Their split-screen rallies Saturday (Harris wrapped up about two hours before Buttigieg started a few suburbs away) captured their position, neither surging nor falling, with voters who could be heard discussing whether someone else would win the nomination.As he and Harris urge voters to look past the “front-runners,” the Buttigieg strategy involves asking voters again and again to imagine their candidate dismantling Trump with logic.By the way, we're also seeing ISIS fighters freed, so this is also undermining our own interests.”

Harris's “electability' approach is more direct, calling out “the donkey in the room” and saying she may have slipped out of the headlines because, once again, a nonwhite candidate is being underrated.Like Buttigieg, Harris was prompted to talk about the president's moves in Syria.“It is, yet again, another display of Donald Trump's inability to understand the role and the responsibilities of commander in chief, which includes standing with our allies, which includes standing with our friends, which includes standing with those who have stood with us when we have been in time of need,” Harris said.And both Buttigieg and Harris would be back in Iowa on Wednesday, less than 24 hours after the debate is over — both of them putting the state at the center of their primary strategy, both of them with three or four candidates to climb past first.Also important: Sanders kept less of his support than Warren or Biden, though still more than Harris.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) speaks at SEIU's Unions for All summit in Los Angeles on Friday.(Etienne Laurent/EPA-EFE)

SAN DIEGO — Three years ago, Kamala Harris won a Senate seat from California in a 24-point rout.“I saw a clip of her in San Francisco, talking about dealing with kids dropping out of school or playing hooky, and smirking as she said she was going to put their parents in jail.”

Five months out from California's primary, just four months before the first ballots go out in the mail, Harris has fallen to the middle of the pack in a state where she has won three big, expensive races.The candidate most obviously struggling in that arrangement is Harris, for whom a potential advantage — a delegate-rich early primary in her home state — has yet to pan out.“I do not rise and fall with poll numbers,” Harris told reporters at the SEIU's “Unions for All” forum this week.We're building up as we always intended to do.”

After a spectacular start, a rally in her hometown of Oakland that remains the largest single gathering for any 2020 Democrat, Harris has slipped behind in California for the same reasons she's struggled nationally.Liberal voters who pay close attention to the primary were deluged with early, negative stories about Harris's time as San Francisco district attorney; other voters often didn't realize she was their senator.“Harris isn't the 'favorite daughter' candidate, but that's not unusual, because she's not well known,” said Rose Kapolczynski, a longtime Democratic strategist who helped elect Harris's predecessor, Barbara Boxer.Harris's campaign remains well organized in California and dominates other candidates with local endorsements — at least 150 of them, from left-wing icon Rep. Barbara Lee to Blue Dog Democratic Rep. Jim Costa.The campaign has 11 staff working in the state and says that at least 3,000 volunteers “have been trained to be community organizers through Camp Kamala,” its organizing school.But some donors who had high hopes for Harris have started to play out a primary where the senator lags behind.“She’s built a really strong base of fans in California, and I think she’ll retain that, either in this race or in the future,” Donna Bojarsky, a Democratic strategist who attended a Harris fundraiser last week, said in an email.The National Union of Healthcare Workers, which represents around 15,000 California nurses, endorsed Harris in her 2016 Senate race; last month, its members voted to support Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders.“Do we have a really good relationship with Sen. Harris?But that donor interest is a function of Democrats' interest in their non-Harris alternatives.South Carolina Democratic primary (Fox News, 803 Democrats)

Joe Biden — 41% ( 6)

Elizabeth Warren — 12% ( 7)

Bernie Sanders — 10% (-4)

Kamala Harris — 4% (-8)

Tom Steyer — 4% ( 4)

Cory Booker — 3 ( 0)

Pete Buttigieg — 2 ( 0)

Michael Bennet — 1 ( 1)

Tulsi Gabbard — 1 ( 1)

Tim Ryan — 1 ( 1)

Marianne Williamson — 1 ( 0)

Andrew Yang — 1 ( 0)

The first Southern primary remains, for Biden, a variation on the “firewall” — he leads there handily, but not with the margin that Hillary Clinton won on her way to putting Sanders away.As of today, seven candidates have qualified for November's debate: Joe Biden, Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, Kamala Harris, Pete Buttigieg, Cory Booker and Tom Steyer.Harris said Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky, Gabbard said former congressman Trey Gowdy, and O’Rourke recalled driving with Rep. Will Hurd from Texas to Washington and airing the whole thing on Facebook.“People told me go for something little, go for something small, go for something that the big corporations will be able to accept … we have to be willing to make big structural change.”

AD

AD

Candidates address abortion rights

Harris said that if she were elected president, her Justice Department would use “pre-clearance” to fight back against state legislators that pass unconstitutional abortion restrictions, so that those laws would not go into effect.“And the answer was ‘Uh, uh, uh, no,’” Harris said.AD

Harris pivoted back to the corporate accountability issue, arguing that Warren has different standards for different businesses.“This is a matter of holding big tech accountable because they have an outsized influence on people’s perceptions about issues, and they actually influence behaviors, we all have to agree this is their power,” Harris said.We’ll make more.”

Debate turns to gun control

The candidates delivered impassioned arguments on gun control, with several — including Booker, Harris and Castro — referencing their personal experience with gun violence in their communities.Harris said that there are 5 million assault weapons on the streets of America today and noted her experience meeting with the family of gun violence victims, including police officers shot in the line of duty, during her time in California.“I’m done,” Harris said.Harris brings up abortion

During the back and forth on Medicare-for-all, Harris noted that women’s reproductive rights did not come up in any of the previous debates, even though, she said, Republican state legislatures are trying to dismantle those rights.“It’s outrageous.”

Harris continued, “People need to keep their hands off of women’s bodies and let women make the decisions about their own lives.”

Medicare-for-all: Who would pay?Harris echoed her competitors, expressing her support of the impeachment inquiry and adding that she didn’t think the impeachment process would take very long.“Because as a former prosecutor, I know a confession when I see it,” Harris said.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.): Speaking of Iowa-first, Harris is apparently in on that, too — which, as with Booker, is probably a reflection of how much they need an early kick-start to keep their campaigns going.The RealClearPolitics poll average puts Buttigieg at 5.4 percent nationally, vying for fourth place with Kamala D. Harris.($19.2 million); Biden ($15.7 million); and Sen. Kamala D. Harris of California ($11.8 million).AD

Among the five, Harris and Biden spent more money in the third quarter than they raised.Harris spent $3.8 million on salary and related costs, and $3.4 million on digital and media buys.Six other Democratic candidates have released their third-quarter totals so far: Sanders; Buttigieg; Sen. Kamala D. Harris of California ($11.6 million); businessman Andrew Yang ($10 million); Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey ($6 million); and Sen. Michael F. Bennet of Colorado ($2.1 million).Both Buttigieg and Harris are campaigning strenuously in Iowa; Buttigieg’s polling and fundraising numbers suggest he could well pass a fading Sanders, especially in an early state Sanders might have been expected to dominate.Austin L. Wright (@austinlwright) is an assistant professor at the University of Chicago Harris School of Public Policy.AD

Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) added, “Leaving more than 5 million assault weapons on the street isn’t a ban, it’s a Band-Aid.”

O’Rourke leveled another charge.It could have been worse: He could have been Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.).Harris, of course, stands out in her own way.Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) pressed Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.“You can't say you're for corporate responsibility if it doesn't apply to everyone,” Harris said.AD

The Democratic hopefuls whose message is more revolutionary — Warren, Sanders, a senator from Vermont, and perhaps Harris, a senator from California — are emphasizing executive action more than those who foresee a return to bipartisan cooperation.Harris didn’t directly rebut the criticism.You’re not going to be able to substantially and sustainably move things forward if it’s just by executive order.”

Harris, saying “elections matter,” argues that immediate corrective action will be needed after Trump leaves office.AD

AD

Harris and other candidates often say they will ask Congress to pass certain bills and will issue an executive order only if it fails to do so.Harris’s proposed order expanding background checks on gun buyers, for example, would not instantly change the system.By directing ATF to classify as “dealers” even those who sell as few as five guns a year for profit, Harris would significantly expand the number of people covered.That would have a big effect — but the next GOP president could undo Harris’s action immediately upon taking office.Here, Warren leads Biden among white voters by a 29 to 22 margin; Biden leads the field with black voters, who give him 46 percent of their support to 10 percent for Harris, 9 percent for Warren and 8 percent for Sanders.Its new numbers add to the teetering pile of bad news for Harris; it's also good for Sanders, who maintains his leads with young voters and Latino voters in the big primary state where he spent the most time.She criticized Kamala Harris for urging Twitter to suspend the president’s account, telling Fox News: “I will stand up for every American’s right and freedom of speech, no matter how strongly I may disagree with that speech.”

COUNTDOWN

... one day until the SEIU's “Unions for All” forums in Los Angeles

... seven days until CNN's LGBT town halls in Los Angeles

... nine days until Louisiana's gubernatorial primary

... 12 days until the fourth Democratic debate

From left: Harris Dickinson, Elle Fanning, Robert Lindsay and Michelle Pfeiffer in “Maleficent: Mistress of Evil.” (Jaap Buitendijk/Walt Disney Motion Pictures)

Reporter

Rating: (1.5 stars)

Disney’s revisionist “Maleficent” took the “Sleeping Beauty” story that inspired the studio’s own 1959 animated classic and turned it upside down, right on the horned head of its titular protagonist.Aurora’s love interest from the earlier film (Harris Dickinson, replacing Brenton Thwaites) is still in the picture, and, as the film opens, this anodyne Prince Charming — er, Phillip — has just proposed marriage to Aurora.“Maleficent: Mistress of Evil” is the even-darker sequel to “Maleficent,” Disney’s live-action retelling of “Sleeping Beauty.” After Aurora (Elle Fanning) becomes engaged to Prince Phillip (Harris Dickinson), his mother, Queen Ingrith (Michelle Pfeiffer), threatens not only Maleficent (Angelina Jolie) but all the Moorfolk.For Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) and O’Rourke, the debate offered one more chance to distinguish themselves from their nonviable and in many cases unserious rivals.Harris had a mixed outing, beginning with a forceful statement about impeachment, denouncing Trump for “selling out” the country and getting a hearty round of applause for raising access to abortion.Senators player-manager Bucky Harris had used only three pitchers to that point, but he didn’t hesitate to bring his ace right-hander from the bullpen in the ninth inning on just one day’s rest (there were no off days in that series).AD

“Walter was my best bet,” Harris said after the game.We saw a number of tense exchanges including:



Warren & Sanders v Biden

Warren v Yang

Warren v Klobuchar

Warren v Buttigieg

Warren v O’Rourke

Warren v Gabbard

Warren v Harris — Yamiche Alcindor (@Yamiche) October 16, 2019

BIDEN PROBLEMS: Biden's answers, on the other hand, even on topics he had to know were coming, were sometimes garbled and lacking clear points.($19.2 million); Biden ($15.7 million); and Sen. Kamala Harris of California ($11.8 million)."Harris made sure abortion was not ignored this time: Harris took exception to the fact that the three hour debate in September failed to include a question about abortion or reproductive rights, Vox's Anna North reports.This time, she refused to wait for the moderators to bring it up:

Kamala Harris says there has been “not nearly one word” on the issue of women’s reproductive health during previous debates, even as there is a “full-on attack” on abortion access in some states.had $25.7 million; South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg had $23.4 million; and Sen. Kamala D. Harris had $10.5 million.Days later, Harris appeared in a CNN town hall where host Jake Tapper pressed her on the text of Medicare-for-all legislation, which would make private insurance illegal if it competed with (as opposed to supplemented) Medicare.“Listen, the idea is that everyone gets access to medical care,” Harris said.Let’s move on.”

Harris was caught flat-footed; Republicans quickly noted she had, indeed, called for eliminating private insurance, leading to a next-day cleanup where her campaign said she was open to “multiple paths” to universal coverage.Cory Booker (D-N.J.) and Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) to aggressively speak out about gun violence, “given their backgrounds and where they come from.” But discussions about gun violence’s impact on people of color appear to be missing from the national conversation, Barry said.Later, the race was considered a contest among four or five candidates: the top three plus South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg and Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.).Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) echoed her competitors, expressing her support of the impeachment inquiry and adding that she didn’t think the impeachment process would take very long.Kamala Harris.Just as she did in Houston, Harris benefited from a fall to the middle of the pack; she can get twisted up when defending specific polices but is compelling when describing the crises worsened or left unmanaged by the president.Arizona Rep. Ruben Gallego, one of Harris's surrogates, argued that the president's abusive tweets were especially threatening to nonwhite voters, and that Warren, revealingly, didn't appreciate that.But Harris didn't make that connection herself.In June and July, the Hawaii congresswoman earned a reputation as a knife-fighter, embarrassing Ohio Rep. Tim Ryan in an exchange about the 9/11 attacks and unloading on Harris over her “deeply concerning” record as a prosecutor.When asked by a reporter over the weekend if she would allow the son or daughter of her vice president to serve on the board of a foreign oil company, Sen. Kamala D. Harris said "probably not."VIDEO: @KamalaHarris is asked if she would allow the child of her VP serve on the board of a foreign oil company.with 43 percent, then Sen. Kamala D. Harris (31 percent).Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) has proposed a version of Medicare-for-all that would involve private insurers administering it.(AP Photo/John Minchillo)

ABORTION: Harris chimed in during the Medicare-for-all debate to point out a lack of questions about states passing new abortion restrictions.Kamala Harris: "It's not an exaggeration to say women will die — poor women, women of color will die — because these Republican legislatures in these various states who are out of touch with America are telling women what to do with their bodies" #DemDebate pic.twitter.com/rtyjHfQnBT — CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) October 16, 2019

When asked about how the candidates would stop laws restricting abortion, Harris said under her administration, the Justice Department would review whether laws comply with Roe v. Wade, otherwise they wouldn’t go into effect.Harris said she thinks pharmaceutical executives should be locked up.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) quotes the author Maya Angelou.Biden smiles, but before he can respond Harris breaks the spell by changing the topic.But then, just as the robot conversation gets going, Booker chimes in to sayHarris is right about reproductive health care.Wow,” says Harris, looking shocked.Harris talks about Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.).Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), a presidential hopeful, even suggested Trump should not be allowed to make such a remark on Twitter, sharing his “COUP” tweet with CEO Jack Dorsey.In the end, Tom could not agree to Stephens’s plan to violate the dress code, so he offered Stephens a severance.”

Harris Funeral Homes is represented by the conservative legal group Alliance Defending Freedom, which says Title VII was not violated.Because it does not disfavor one sex compared to the other, Harris does not discriminate based on sex,” the brief states.AD

The Washington Post’s Devlin Barrett, Shane Harris and Matt Zapotosky reported Monday that Barr has been traveling overseas to seek help from top allies for Durham’s probe, visiting Britain and making multiple trips to Italy.In interviews around the events, Klobuchar-curious voters tended to list her alongside South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg; Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.); and Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) as the candidates who could have the longest reach, because they were not seen as too left-wing.That kicked off the most sustained national attention for Gabbard's campaign since a tough July debate performance in which she attacked Sen. Kamala D. Harris's criminal justice record.Clinton is a foil for that, and Harris isn't.He kicked off his “heartland start-up” tour over the weekend, en route to the latest Democratic dinner in Cedar Rapids, which will also be attended by Kamala Harris, Michael Bennet and Tulsi Gabbard.His bribery indictment in spring came on the heels of another scandal for Republicans in the state: Less than two months earlier, North Carolina officials had ordered a redo of a congressional race after evidence of ballot-tampering tainted GOP candidate Mark Harris’s victory.AD

AD

“It’s become clear to me that the public’s confidence in the 9th District-seat general election has been undermined to an extent that a new election is warranted,” Harris acknowledged at the time.Hayes weighed in as GOP chairman to say that the state party backed Harris’s decision to support a redo.And if the court takes this up and interprets this 1964 statute to prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation, we will be acting exactly like a legislature.”

AD

Jeffrey M. Harris, the lawyer for the employers, and Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco, representing the Trump administration, made precisely that argument.Sex and sexual orientation, Harris said, are independent and distinct characteristics.Candidates who at first seemed to combine crowd-pleasing star power with center-left appeal, such as O’Rourke and Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), faded quickly.Other Democratic candidates who have released their third-quarter totals so far: Sen. Kamala D. Harris of California ($11.6 million); businessman Andrew Yang ($10 million); Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey ($6 million); and Sen. Michael F. Bennet of Colorado ($2.1 million).Kamala D. Harris (Calif.), Amy Klobuchar (Minn.) and Cory Booker (N.J.).Kamala Harris.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), announced raising $11.6 million — on par with her haul last quarter.AD

Harris saw a bump in fundraising and polling at the end of the second quarter thanks to a headline-grabbing debate performance in June, but she has struggled to maintain momentum and slipped in the polls in subsequent weeks.AD

Harris had a full fundraising schedule this summer to increase donations and sustain her campaign.“Maleficent: Mistress of Evil” is the even-darker sequel to “Maleficent,” Disney’s live-action retelling of “Sleeping Beauty.” After Aurora (Elle Fanning) becomes engaged to Prince Phillip (Harris Dickinson), his mother, Queen Ingrith (Michelle Pfeiffer), threatens not only Maleficent (Angelina Jolie) but all the Moorfolk.

Naomie Harris stars in “Black and Blue.” (Alan Markfield/Screen Gems)

Reporter

Rating: (2 stars)

Not long into the movie “Black and Blue,” an idealistic police rookie from New Orleans’s Ninth Ward witnesses the summary execution of three black civilian informants by her fellow cops.There is already a fault line there, underscored by the film’s title and re-articulated in the film’s prologue, a scene in which Alicia West (Naomie Harris), a new patrol officer just back from two tours in Afghanistan, is detained by white policemen for the “crime” of jogging while black.Much of what makes “Black and Blue” watchable is Harris’s compassionate — and passionate — performance, and the rapport her character develops with the more stoic Mouse.In the eighth, the Astros brought in reliever Will Harris.Harris got Soto to look at a curveball for strike one, then got him to foul off a fastball for strike two.“Current and former intelligence and law enforcement officials expressed frustration and alarm Monday that the head of the Justice Department was taking such a direct role in reexamining what they view as conspiracy theories and baseless allegations of misconduct,” my colleagues Devlin Barrett, Shane Harris and Matt Zapotosky scooped last night.“The direct involvement of the nation’s top law enforcement official shows the priority Barr places on the investigation being conducted by John Durham, the U.S. attorney in Connecticut, who has been assigned the sensitive task of reviewing U.S. intelligence work surrounding the 2016 election and its aftermath,” Barrett, Harris and Zapotosky reported.WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING:

Kamala Harris campaigns in Detroit.-- Kamala Harris is shaking up the top ranks of her flailing campaign, which has been plagued by dysfunction.From Politico: “Harris’ light early-state schedule, hiccups on the trail and lack of consistency in delivering her message have consumed much of the ... blame for her mounting struggles.Behind the scenes, aides said a lack of clarity among staff surrounding the roles of Campaign Manager Juan Rodriguez and Campaign Chair Maya Harris, the candidate’s sister, and inexperience across the organization are feeding a growing sense of indecision and aimlessness inside the campaign.At one point, aides said, Harris hired executive coaches for senior campaign management to cope with the problems — a move viewed internally as a recognition of their collective inexperience.Aides point to scheduling bottlenecks occurring among the campaign’s three top inside decision-makers: Rodriguez, Maya Harris and [the senator], who has a reputation as a micromanager."-- Harris’s questioning of Barr during a committee hearing this spring is making the rounds again:

Flashback: May 1.Harris: Has the president or anyone at the W.H....

Harris: Seems you'd remember something like that and be able to tell us.Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) raised $11.6 million on pace with her previous quarter --- she ended it with $10 million cash on hand.During a 2017 Oval Office meeting, the president told Russian officials he didn’t care about their efforts to compromise the 2016 election as my colleagues Shane Harris, Josh Dawsey and Ellen Nakashima reported.Our colleagues Devlin Barrett, Shane Harris, and Matt Zapotosky scooped that Barr is personally involved in investigating the origins of the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election.“White House officials were particularly distressed by Trump’s election remarks because it appeared the president was forgiving Russia for an attack that had been designed to help elect him,” my colleagues Shane Harris, Josh Dawsey and Ellen Nakashima reported Friday.… But the CIA has not changed its assessment from November that Mohammed ordered Khashoggi’s killing, according to two U.S. officials,” Shane Harris and John Hudson reported in Sunday’s newspaper: “A Saudi dissident living in the United States who spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing a fear of retaliation, said the Saudi government weathered the furor over Khashoggi’s killing because the Trump administration stood by Mohammed.We want Kickstarter to thrive and prosper as an organization, and we ask them to recognize the union now.”

#TRENDING

— Tech news generating buzz around the Web:

Internet Culture Kamala Harris wants Trump suspended from Twitter for ‘harassment.'Harris's campaign accused Trump of issuing "blatant threats" on Twitter.), South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg, Sen. Kamala Harris (Calif.), entrepreneur Andrew Yang, former Congressman Beto O'Rourke, Sen. Cory Booker and former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julián Castro.), South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg, Sen. Kamala Harris (Calif.), entrepreneur Andrew Yang, former Congressman Beto O'Rourke, Sen. Cory Booker and former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julián Castro.And Mr. Buttigieg cast mandatory buybacks — which Mr. O’Rourke, [New Jersey Senator Cory] Booker and Senator Kamala Harris of California support — as a ‘shiny object’ whose pursuit might sabotage a rare opportunity to pass new gun laws.”

-- The longtime public relations agency for the National Rifle Association claimed that the organization’s chief executive, Wayne LaPierre, “bristled” at the group’s early endorsement of Trump in 2016.… In a statement, William Brewer III, an outside attorney for the NRA, said Ackerman McQueen’s court filing was ‘fraught with false and misleading information.’”

-- Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) is on the cover of Time, discussing with Molly Ball how she’s trying to regain her footing.… In this new political climate, voters may relish the idea of seeing Harris–with her icy prosecutor’s glare–square off against [Trump] on the national stage.After Rudolph W. Giuliani, Trump’s personal attorney, chastised the media on Tuesday for not investigating “the Clintons and crooked Clinton Foundation,” Clinton offered a wry rejoinder: “Yes, I am famously under-scrutinized.” And after Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) offered a Twitter defense of Clinton following news of the State Department’s intensifying email probe of her former aides, Clinton replied, “But my emails.Matt Zapotosky, Josh Dawsey, Shane Harris and Rosalind S. Helderman report: “Those involved in the FBI investigation said they are mystified by the attorney general’s activities and interest in the professor, Joseph Mifsud, and they suspect that Barr might be using Justice Department resources to validate conjecture that Mifsud was deployed against a Trump adviser by Western intelligence to manufacture a basis to investigate the campaign.But Jeffrey M. Harris, the lawyer for the employers, distinguished between sex and sexual orientation, which he said are independent and distinct characteristics.“And give the House of Representatives, and also the Senate and the general public, the evidence that we need to form a case either for or against him.”

12:20 p.m.: Harris, Feinstein say they have questions for Giuliani

Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) on Tuesday highlighted a potential dilemma for Giuliani as he decides whether he wants to take up Graham’s offer to testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee.In a tweet, Harris responded to Graham’s announcement on Twitter that he asked Giuliani to share his concerns “about corruption and other improprieties involving Ukraine.”

“Good.I have questions,” tweeted Harris, who has earned a reputation for her aggressive questioning of witnesses before the committee, including now-Supreme Court Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh.Sen. Dianne Feinstein (Calif.), the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, made that clear in a statement shortly after Harris’s tweet.— Shane Harris

7:45 a.m.: Murphy seeks to simplify the case for impeachment

With Republicans laboring to undermine the impeachment inquiry, Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) sought to simplify the story line on Tuesday.Shane Harris and John Wagner report: “Sondland was scheduled to be deposed on Tuesday morning before House committees seeking information about his activities as Trump urged Ukraine to investigate his political opponents, according to his lawyer, Robert Luskin.As my wise colleague Shane Harris tweeted about the impeachment inquiry saga: "if it feels hard to keep up, it's because it is."“But Pelosi has said that Democrats don't need to take a vote and has shown little interest in doing so after she announced last month the House would open an impeachment inquiry, accusing the White House of trying to play politics and arguing that House rules don't require a vote.”

Caveat: Nonetheless, Trump's decision highlighted “the limitations of Democrats’ ability to exercise their oversight authority of an administration that appears unfazed by flouting subpoenas,” per our colleagues Karoun Demirjian, Josh Dawsey, Shane Harris and John Wagner.“Trump has regularly told White House officials that he does not want to cooperate with the House committees conducting oversight,” sources tell Karoun Demirjian, Josh Dawsey, Shane Harris and John Wagner.… Schweizer didn’t immediately respond to messages sent to his spokesperson and to Breitbart News, where he is a senior contributor.”

-- Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) hopes the impeachment inquiry gives her an opening to pitch herself as a prosecutor.From the Wall Street Journal: While in Iowa, Harris “praised the ‘brilliance’ of the framers of the Constitution for thinking of ‘this moment, when there would be an abuse of power in one of our branches of government’ and had some tough talk for Mr. Trump, whom she called a ‘crook’ and ‘a walking indictment in a red tie’—harsher than her usual reference to him as a ‘predator.’ For much of this year, Ms. Harris’s campaign approached her prosecutor background cautiously, trying to navigate around critics who said she didn’t do enough to tackle the inequities in the criminal-justice system.AD

For the Dolphins, offensive lineman Jesse Davis (elbow), wide receiver Jakeem Grant (hamstring), linebacker Trent Harris (foot), cornerback Xavien Howard (knee), safety Reshad Jones (ankle), cornerback Chris Lammons (toe), safety Bobby McCain (hamstring/shoulder), receiver Albert Wilson (calf/hip), cornerback Johnson Bademosi (ankle), cornerback Jomal Wiltz (groin) and running back Kalen Ballege (foot) were all listed as questionable.California's two senators, Kamala Harris and Dianne Feinstein, have also called on the EPA’s inspector general to investigate "whether the White House pressured the agency to abuse its law enforcement authority to single out California and the city of San Francisco."Gabbard, who used the second debate to attack Harris's criminal justice record, looms as a threat, largely because she's the only Democrat who's actively celebrated her ability to go negative.Gabbard, who’s leaned into her reputation as the knife-fighter who “destroyed” Harris, has remained in the low single digits.(Quinnipiac, 505 likely Democratic voters)

Joe Biden — 48% (-1)

Elizabeth Warren — 21% ( 12)

Bernie Sanders — 7% (-5)

Pete Buttigieg — 2% ( 1)

Kamala Harris — 1% (-5)

Beto O'Rourke — 1% (-1)

Democrats have wrestled with the “electability” question all year.and Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) have laid out health-care proposals that go beyond just how to expand health coverage.(AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)

— Trump’s ex-Russia advisor talks of Giuliani’s shadowy foreign policy: Fiona Hill, the White House's former top Russia adviser, told impeachment investigators in a 10-hour closed-door session about the efforts in Ukraine by Rudolph W. Giuliani, the president’s personal lawyer, to evade U.S. officials and benefit Trump, The Post’s Karoun Demirjian, Shane Harris and Rachael Bade report.(Courtesy of Jeffrey Harrison)

Many of her students recognize the same techniques and speaking style at work on the campaign trail.Read more:

Kamala D. Harris grew up in a mostly white world.“In a closed-door session that lasted roughly 10 hours, Hill told lawmakers that she confronted Gordon Sondland, the U.S. ambassador to the European Union, about Giuliani’s activities which, she testified, were not coordinated with the officials responsible for carrying out U.S. foreign policy,” Karoun Demirjian, Shane Harris and Rachael Bade report.AD

COOPER: Senator Harris, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has said that members of Congress have to be, in her words, fair to the president and give him a chance to exonerate himself.LACEY: Senator Harris, your response?And God bless Kamala, but you know what?Senator Harris, you want to give working families a tax credit of up to $6,000 a year to help close the income gap.Senator Harris, given that the U.S. abandoned our Kurdish allies, what would you do as president to convince the rest of the world that we can still be trusted?COOPER: Senator Harris?Senator Harris, you want to hold the drug manufacturers that fueled the crisis accountable.SANDERS: I'm more than happy to answer your question, but I wanted to pick up on what Kamala and Cory and others have said.Senator Harris, to you, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg says that splitting up big tech companies will make election interference more likely because the companies won't be able to work together to fight it.Senator Harris?Senator Harris, if states prevail on restricting abortion, what's your plan to stop them?(APPLAUSE)

BURNETT: Senator Harris, thank you.Senator Harris?And after we joined forces, he said to me, "Kamala, you know, Appalachia loves this."(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Thank you, Senator Harris.Kamala Harris ripped her for not supporting a gimmicky idea that Twitter should suspend President Trump's account.The top fundraisers of the quarter were Sanders ($25.3 million); Warren ($24.7 million); Buttigieg ($19.2 million); Biden ($15.7 million); and Harris ($11.8 million).Among those five, Harris and Biden spent more money in the third quarter than they raised.The person described the hotel as “not the nicest in Brussels, but one of the nicer ones.”

Harris and Hudson reported from Washington.Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) and Cory Booker (D-N.J.).More on Sondland's lavish tastes: "He got addicted,” one former official told our colleagues Michael Birnbaum, Shane Harris and John Hudson about the ambassador overseeing a nearly $1 million renovation of his government-provided residence with taxpayer money."He got addicted,” one former official told our colleagues Michael Birnbaum, Shane Harris and John Hudson about the ambassador overseeing a nearly $1 million renovation of his government-provided residence with taxpayer money.I saw Kamala Harris just mentioned it recently.I saw Kamala Harris just mentioned it recently.Current and former officials say the renovations are both extravagant and unnecessary, Michael Birnbaum, Shane Harris and John Hudson report: “The State Department also has allocated more than $100,000 for an ‘alternate’ residence for Sondland for September and October, while work is performed.Officials from three Seoul police stations didn’t immediately say whether they will seek to formally arrest any of the 19 university students who were detained Friday afternoon at the residence of Ambassador Harry Harris.They shouted anti-U.S. slogans and held up signs that read “The United States has called for a five-fold increase in defense costs!” and “Harris, leave this land!” before police officers dragged them out.AD

At the time of the protest, Harris was at Seoul’s presidential Blue House attending a reception for foreign ambassadors hosted by President Moon Jae-in.Harris tweeted about the incident on Saturday, saying, “Big shout out to Embassy guards & Seoul Metro Police Agency for responding to protesters who breached perimeter around my residence.Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) and Cory Booker (N.J.).Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), has called on Twitter to suspend the president's account.California Sen. Kamala Harris, who was then in second place, … has plummeted 13 percentage points and is now in a three-way tie for sixth.Accounts from both sides of the political spectrum attacked Joe Biden; some also attacked Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren.”

“The reason that networks of phony accounts are drawn to Instagram is because disinformation is increasingly visual in nature, and that’s what Instagram specializes in,” said Paul Barrett, deputy director of New York University’s Stern Center for Business and Human Rights.(HuffPost)

Kamala Harris speaks at a rally on Saturday at a high school in Aiken, S.C. (Michael Holahan/Augusta Chronicle/AP)

2020 WATCH:

-- Kamala Harris rose to Democratic stardom by weaving a narrative about fighting for consumers against big banks as California's attorney general.Politico has a preview: Aaron Glantz's book, “Homewreckers,” argues that “Harris not only allowed Steve Mnuchin’s OneWest bank to get away with foreclosing on tens of thousands of state homeowners, but then tried to bury the evidence.The time period when all this homewrecking occurred was during the Obama presidency, and when AG’s like Kamala Harris were on the job,’ he said.And she’s never been really forced to tell the other story -- and wrestle with the truth of what happened.’” Harris’s campaign responded forcefully to the charges by highlighting Harris's work pioneering the Homeowner’s Bill of Rights and her introduction of a bill that would empower state AGs to issue subpoenas to federal banks.1924 — Griffith makes 27-year-old player Bucky Harris the manager.But he disagreed with Sen. Kamala Harris on social media, who has called for Twitter to suspend Trump's account amid concerns the president's language incites violence.AD

Police initially detained 19 university students Friday afternoon at the residence of Ambassador Harry Harris after 17 of them used two steel ladders to climb over the compound’s wall and shouted anti-U.S. slogans before officers dragged them out.AD

At the time of the protest, Harris was at Seoul’s presidential Blue House attending a reception hosted by President Moon Jae-in.And especially after that July debate, when Gabbard unloaded on Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), she’d won plaudits from conservatives who appreciated a candidate so ready to dismantle candidates with more party support.The resolution is co-sponsored by seven Democratic senators, including Democratic presidential contenders Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) and Cory Booker (D-N.J.).and Kamala D. Harris (Calif.).It has more than a little to do with the fact that Warren has a clear articulation of her mission — fighting corporations and the wealthy to undo a corrupt system — while Harris can’t seem to explain in a succinct way what drives her candidacy.They were about evenly split on Buttigieg (34 to 34) and Kamala D. Harris (38 to 36).Klobuchar is next at 4 percent, and Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) draws 3 percent.Second, if impeachment proceeds to a Senate trial that lasts for weeks, Warren, Harris, Sanders, Klobuchar and Booker will be among those tied up inside the Beltway.Six campaigns have opened offices here: Biden, Warren, Buttigieg, Kamala Harris, Delaney and O'Rourke, Biden made one of his first stops here, while Buttigieg has returned multiple times.Buttigieg and O'Rourke each have two offices, while Warren, O'Rourke, Klobuchar, Harris and Sanders have one.Wisconsin Democratic primary (Marquette Law School, 379 registered voters)

Joe Biden — 31% ( 3)

Elizabeth Warren — 24% ( 7)

Bernie Sanders — 17% (-3)

Pete Buttigeig — 7% ( 1)

Kamala Harris — 5% ( 2)

Amy Klobuchar — 3% (-1)

Andrew Yang — 3% ( 1)

Tulsi Gabbard — 2% ( 0)

Cory Booker — 1% (-3)

Marianne Williamson — 1% ( 1)

Most of the Democratic field is unlikely to be around by April, when Wisconsin votes.Kamala Harris.In terms of other issues, like investment in underinvested communities, and really being vocal about the issues that are affecting black communities, other than shootings, I don’t think he has led — and I can honestly say the same about Kamala Harris,” the Democratic senator from California.I especially want to thank Senator Ron Johnson, Congresswoman Virginia Foxx, Congressman Andy Harris, and Congressman Ralph Norman for your leadership on the Hill and for your commitment to education freedom.Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.).(AP Photo/John Minchillo)

— 2020 watch:

Kamala Harris’s plan to hold oil and utility companies accountable: The California Democrat told Mother Jones in an interview that the federal government should “absolutely” play a role in investigating fossil fuel companies for their role in climate change.“This was the first time Harris has weighed in on the utility’s role after power shut-offs in her home state,” Mother Jones reports.“This was the first time Harris has weighed in on the utility’s role after power shut-offs in her home state,” Mother Jones reports.AD

AD

The ball sailed, tipped off McLaurin’s hands and landed in the arms of Minnesota safety Anthony Harris.And when the throw to McLaurin went into Harris’s hands, the Redskins were done.Washington took over on the Minnesota 34-yard line, but on the second play after taking over, Haskins threw too high for rookie wide receiver Terry McLaurin — his Ohio State teammate — and was intercepted by the Vikings’ Anthony Harris.Harris (Calif.) and nine other Democratic presidential candidates were to speak on criminal justice reform at Benedict College, a historically black college in Columbia, S.C.But Harris announced late Friday that she would be skipping the event and in a statement accused organizers of “papering over” Trump’s record of “decades of celebrating mass incarceration, pushing the death penalty for innocent Black Americans, rolling back police accountability measures and racist behavior that puts people’s lives at risk.”

AD

AD

“Donald Trump is a lawless President.Not only does he circumvent the laws of our country and the principles of our Constitution, but there is nothing in his career that is about justice, for justice, or in celebration of justice,” Harris said.Harris also took issue with the White House’s inviting only 10 students of the college to attend Trump’s speech and filling the audience with his supporters.Then, on Saturday afternoon, in the midst of the forum, Harris said the college dropped the event’s sponsor, the 20/20 Bipartisan Justice Center, and opened the event to the larger student body.AD

In the announcement reversing her boycott, Harris included a statement from one of the forum’s organizers.But the 20/20 Bipartisan Justice Center continued to tweet about the event Saturday, sharing several photos of Harris speaking.AD

The only external evidence of sponsorship was a typed note on one of the doors advising attendees that entering the area meant they could be photographed or filmed for “2020 Bipartisan Justice Center marketing material.”

The Harris campaign and the 20/20 Bipartisan Justice Center did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Instead of attending the forum, Harris had planned to hold a separate community discussion on criminal justice reform — an issue that has been politically fraught for her, given her background as San Francisco’s district attorney and as California attorney general.Though Harris argues that her record makes her uniquely qualified to address the systemic problems, her critics say she was once part of the problem.AD

At the event Saturday, Harris said she was upset that Trump had been honored.After Harris initially dropped out, Cory Booker (D-N.J.), a leading voice on criminal justice reform in the Senate, tweeted, “I saw what happened today.“But in America, you’re innocent until proven guilty, and we don’t have investigations in search of that crime.”

AD

Trump slammed Harris on Saturday morning over her announcement that she would cancel her appearance.“Badly failing presidential candidate @KamalaHarris will not go to a very wonderful largely African American event today because yesterday I received a major award, at the same event, for being able to produce & sign into law major Criminal Justice Reform legislation, which will greatly help the African American community (and all other communities), and which was unable to get done in past administrations despite a tremendous desire for it,” Trump tweeted.Harris hit back on Twitter, writing, “My whole life I’ve fought for justice and for the people — something you’d know nothing about.“If you're seeing a guy good and you see the pitch you want and you take a good hack at it, let it go.”

AD

AD

Rendon led off the seventh against a reliever he hadn’t faced before, Will Harris, and fought the count full.He got another cutter up in the zone, a similar pitch to what he’d seen from Harris, and he seemed ready.They saw all Houston’s best relievers — James, Brad Peacock, Will Harris, Smith and closer Roberto Osuna.ON THE TRAIL

Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) speaks during the Second Step Presidential Justice Forum at Benedict College in Columbia, S.C., on Oct. 6.Just as when he took a full-page ad out in the New York Times calling for the execution of five innocent black teenagers, just like he did when he claimed that the first black president of the United States wasn't born in the United States, and challenged his citizenship.”

Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) went further, canceling her planned appearance to protest Trump, then rejoining it after Benedict College announced it had taken “full control” back from the BJC.Five candidates have met these requirements: Joe Biden, Elizabeth Warren, Bernie Sanders, Pete Buttigieg, and Kamala D. Harris.“The credit goes to the men and women who have been doing all the work every day,” Sen. Kamala Harris of California said after a stop for House of Delegates candidates in Virginia on Sunday.Amy Klobuchar (Minn.) or Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) — from biting into the support he has maintained.The replay would show you Rendon hit a grounder off the body of reliever Will Harris for a single that loaded the bases and Soto rolled over a pitch for a grounder that plated the Nats’ lone run.“I also love Kamala Harris.”

“Honestly, I don’t comprehend why guys hate women so much sometimes,” Legend told the magazine.Harris (D-Calif.) and Cory Booker (D-N.J.), a FiveThirtyEight analysis has found.A family representative, Ross Harris, said the cause was complications of Powassan virus, which can cause encephalitis.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.), a Democratic presidential candidate, has introduced companion legislation in the Senate.Someone who dares — dares — to use the word ‘lynching’ with the blood that has been poured on the soil of South Carolina and so many places,” Harris declared.Authenticity is a much-overused word in politics, but in the case of Harris, on these sets of issues she leads the pack.Just as it was wrong when Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) said that if she were elected president, her administration’s Justice Department “should” prosecute Trump.In May 2018, NBCUniversal General Counsel Kimberley Harris fielded calls from investigative journalists at the network for an independent review of the Lauer situation, with one claiming that such a step would make the mess “go away quicker,” according to Farrow’s book.AD

AD

“Well if the press would stop covering it, it will go away,” responded Harris.While watching the debates, he later appreciated when Gabbard called out Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) for sending people to prison on drug arrests while laughing about using marijuana in college and, later, when Gabbard said she wanted to pull troops out of the Middle East in “a smart way.” It showed she could be tough but not mean-spirited, he said.and Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) as well.pic.twitter.com/4JCN9N8mrE — Kamala Harris (@KamalaHarris) October 27, 2019

These stories are heartbreaking: Multiple residents told Newsom that a power outage forced them to them into horrible situations, the Los Angeles Times's Taryn Luna reports.Karen DeYoung, Louisa Loveluck and Shane Harris report: “Senior administration officials hailed the operation … as evidence that the United States remains determined to eliminate the militant group.McConnell did not respond to multiple requests for comment on Rankin’s claims.”

-- The Los Angeles Times went to New Delhi for a deep dive on Sen. Kamala Harris’s relationship with her maternal grandfather, an Indian civil servant: P.V.… In her 2019 memoir, ‘The Truths We Hold,’ Harris wrote that Gopalan had been part of India’s independence movement, but family members said there was no record of him having been anything other than a diligent civil servant.“I think they’ve been supporting their shareholders and executives more than they’ve been looking out for the public,” said Randy Harris, the owner of a Santa Rosa-based gift shop that has lost customers because of the blackouts.“By May, the company must submit for FDA review any products it wants to remain on the U.S. market beyond that point.”

Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), a 2020 presidential primary candidate.(Mark Makela/Getty Images)

OUCH: Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) defended her stance on Medicare-for-all, which has shifted since she said she supported eliminating private insurance.Let’s back up and explain some of Harris’s evolution on the issue, for which she’s been criticized.In January, when asked about the issue on CNN, Harris appeared to support the elimination of private health insurance but later walked it back, saying she would preserve the private industry.In July, Harris released a plan that phases in Medicare-for-all over a decade and would allow private insurers to compete within a government-run program.In an interview with “Axios on HBO,” Harris acknowledged a shift would impact her campaign.I knew I’d be called a flip-flopper for that.”

She added: “I heard from people, ‘Kamala, don’t take away my choice if I want a private plan.Spokesmen for South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg, Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) and Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) didn’t respond to questions.This is a major national crisis.”

Kamala Harris.“It was clearly meant to embarrass her,” Harris told Molly Hensley-Clancy.AD

AD

The decision by Harris, who is now focusing her campaign almost solely on Iowa, is a major shift for a candidate who once seemed well-positioned to capi­tal­ize on two of the most energized groups in the Democratic Party: women and African Americans.“In a field of 18 candidates, we face an in­cred­ibly competitive resource environment,” Harris campaign manager Juan Rodriguez wrote in a memo.But this is an undeniable comedown for a Harris campaign that launched in front of nearly 20,000 supporters in Oakland, Calif., still one of the largest gatherings of the campaign.AD

AD

Several recent surveys in Iowa showed Harris at 3 percent, after registering 14 percent at the start of September in the RealClearPolitics average.Harris and Biden are not alone in facing money troubles.Harris’s campaign, however, said she would not engage in such tactics.“From the beginning of this campaign, Kamala D. Harris and this team set out with one goal — to win the nomination and defeat Donald Trump in 2020,” Rodriguez wrote in the campaign memo.AD

“His leg still hurts,” Senators Manager Bucky Harris told reporters after Game 6.“He will be right in there tomorrow and with a little help from us — which I guarantee he’ll get — should come home with the bacon.”

Before the game, Landis met with Harris, Peckinpaugh and Senators catcher Muddy Ruel, and demanded that they publicly apologize for criticizing the umpiring earlier in the series.Hinch, like Martinez, has a limited number of high-leverage options among his true relievers, and of them only righty Will Harris pitched in Game 6, throwing five pitches.AD

“It’s the nature of it: the next game is the only game that matters,” Harris said.AD

AD

Several senators running for president, including Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), a former California state prosecutor, would be likely to try to use a trial of Trump as a showcase for their candidacies.With two outs and Gomes still on first, Rendon feasted on a cutter from Houston reliever Will Harris.What was blown up was this close game when Rendon, who had been in a slump before a first-inning RBI single poked to right, smashed a Will Harris offering high and deep into the Crawford boxes in left field for a 5-2 Nats lead.Sen. Kamala Harris (Calif.), who polled at 9 percent in a July New Hampshire poll, received just 3 percent support now.Love you ⁦@KamalaHarris⁩ and so proud of you.New York Times

Kamala Harris Announces Ambitious 6-Month Paid Family Leave Plan Advocates hope this will finally get candidates talking about a key economic and health policy.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), meanwhile, pledged that Congress would hold Trump accountable.— Shane Harris, Rachael Bade and Karoun Demirjian

9 a.m.: House Republicans object to White House subpoena

Republicans on the House Oversight Committee on Friday made public a letter to Cummings, the committee’s chairman, in which they objected to his threatened subpoena of White House records related to Trump’s call with Zelensky.“It’s the most unfair situation people have seen,” Trump said, contending that Democrats “have eviscerated the rules.”

4:15 p.m.: Harris, Blumenthal call on Trump Cabinet members to preserve evidence

Democratic Sens.Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) and Richard Blumenthal (Conn.) sent a letter Wednesday to Trump’s Cabinet officials urging them to preserve evidence, protect whistleblowers and inspectors general and cooperate with “all ongoing and future investigations” into potential wrongdoing by the president.AD

Both Harris, who is running for president, and Blumenthal are former state attorneys general.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) immediately tweeted that “Rudy Giuliani must testify under oath.”

“Let’s be clear about what just happened,” tweeted Sen. Chris Murphy (Conn.) soon after.pic.twitter.com/l0IR0ikEHD — Rudy Giuliani (@RudyGiuliani) October 15, 2019

4:10 p.m.: Democrats blast Giuliani for defying subpoena

Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) tweeted that the House should hold Giuliani in contempt.— Mike DeBonis

12:10 p.m.: 2020 Democrats slam Trump’s effort to undermine Vindman’s testimony

Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) tore into Trump for going after Vindman, using Vindman’s military accomplishments to lessen Trump.You serve yourself,” Harris tweeted.And, in a race in which Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) has had more positions on health care than toppings on a supreme pizza, Warren has emerged as a candidate of deep convictions.Kamala Harris wants teachers to get a $13,500 raise.“Kamala Harris, the prosecutor, is not going to get her facts wrong very often.”

AD

AD

I don’t have any idea whether Democratic voters will end up caring about this contrast.It also explains why Harris has made a huge push in South Carolina, doing multiple events last weekend.If Harris hits 10 percent in both states, she would probably gamble on heavily black South Carolina as a place to resurrect her chances.Kamala D. Harris — 5.Kamala Harris.AD

Across the country, Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) addressed a rally of Kaiser Permanente employees who gathered in Los Angeles on Monday to stage a protest to highlight their working conditions.“Every person in America has benefited from organized labor,” Harris said.“On Saturday, the campaign announced that volunteers would hold 60 events across the country to drive turnout, organize workers and show solidarity with union members.” Kamala Harris addressed a rally of health care workers: The California senator joined Rep. Maxine Waters (Calif.) in Los Angeles at a protest "on Labor Day against what they're calling unfair working conditions and the chain of hospitals being too focused on profits rather than health care,” ABC 7 News reports.ON THE TRAIL

Harris speaks at a Labor Day rally for health-care workers and supporters on Monday in Los Angeles.“I think he just does not have the ability to really have a sense of empathy for people who are enduring hardship and enduring pain,” Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) told reporters.The Trump campaign didn't respond to a question about the Buttigieg and Harris attacks; he had, however, tweeted a defense of his golf habit in the process of attacking London Mayor Sadiq Khan, a frequent online enemy.Kamala Harris.And at a time when Donald Trump never apologizes for anything, he’s better than this.”

-- Other 2020 rivals piled on: Kamala Harris said Biden “doesn’t understand the history of our country.” Elizabeth Warren said it’s “never okay to celebrate segregationists.” Bernie Sanders tweeted that he agrees with Booker: “This is especially true at a time when the Trump administration is trying to divide us up with its racist appeals.” New York Mayor Bill de Blasio invoked his mixed-race family.Paul Kane reports: Democrats, including Sen. Kamala Harris (Calif.) and Sheldon Whitehouse (R.I.) are pushing “legislation that would try to codify lines of communication between presidential advisers and Justice Department officials, requiring the department to keep logs of all discussions.(CNN) Sen. Kamala Harris of California said that if she's elected president, she will back abolishing the filibuster if Senate Republicans stand in the way of legislation to combat climate change.During Wednesday's CNN climate crisis town hall, Harris slammed a Senate committee hearing "during which the underlying premise of the hearing was to debate whether science should be the basis of public policy," eliciting murmurs from the crowd.Harris said she would first seek to work with the GOP.Harris' call for a filibuster comes on the heels of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell bluntly warning Democrats last month against weakening the procedure.As for Warren partisans, more would go to Sanders if she exited than anyone else, but Biden and Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) combined get significantly more of them than the senator from Vermont — again, not exactly progressive champions.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) has proposed a pollution fee to raise money for her plan.Sen. Kamala Harris of California initially declined CNN's invitation, citing a scheduling conflict."We were happy to change our schedule to accommodate such a critical conversation," Harris spokeswoman Lily Adams said."As Senator Harris has said, this is a climate crisis and is one of the most urgent reasons we need a new president."While Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) and South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg are also polling above 5 percent, they have not released detailed climate plans.and Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) pointed to the higher standards that cleaned up southern California's smog problem.Cory Booker, Kamala Harris) to doing it immediately.Harris, who went first, agreed that plastic straws should be banned, before riffing on the problems caused by replacing them.“I mean look, I’m going to be honest, it’s really difficult to drink out of a paper straw,” Harris said.POLL WATCH

Wisconsin presidential primary (Marquette Law, 800 registered voters)

Biden — 28% (-1)

Sanders — 20% (-12)

Warren — 17% ( 0)

Buttigieg — 6% (-1)

Harris — 3% (-8)

Yang — 2% ( 2)

Booker — 1% (-8)

The state's most respected pollster had been asking a friendly, open-ended question of Democratic voters.Senator Kamala Harris of California talked about the dangers of nuclear waste before suggesting she would let states decide whether to accept nuclear plants.For Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), who is spending gobs of time in South Carolina and assiduously courting Biden’s middle-aged church lady, the key will be siphoning off Biden voters and picking off voters queasy about Sanders or Warren but who think Biden is just “blah.” She perhaps stands to gain the most if Biden falters.And that might explain, by the way, why Harris has been working so hard in Iowa.And California Sen. Kamala Harris borrowed a joke Inslee made at a previous debate — that wind turbines don't cause cancer, as Trump has falsely contended.“I’m going to steal a line from Jay Inslee,” Harris warned before delivering the retort.Harris and former Texas congressman Beto O'Rourke, for example, reiterated calls for a complete ban on leasing federal lands and waters for fossil-fuel extraction.But the ex-senator added that if it turns out Goldman is still involved with the company, he wouldn’t “in any way accept his help.”

Harris, meanwhile, staked out a new position on fracking.Whereas in 2016 she was “very skeptical of fracking,” during the CNN town hall Harris clearly said she would seek to ban it outright.“There is no question I am in favor of banning fracking,” Harris said.And while in the past the California Democrat has said she felt "conflicted" about maintaining the Senate's 60-vote filibuster to pass most legislation, Harris pledged to try to strike down the procedure if needed to pass a Green New Deal.and Kamala D. Harris (Calif.), are tied with Trump at 45 percent and 44 percent, respectively.“I love a cheeseburger from time to time,” confirmed Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.).Back on CNN:

“Do you ban plastic straws?” Erin Burnett asked Harris.“I’m going to be honest,” Harris said.“Scientists says that humans only have 11 more years to avoid the catastrophic consequences of this crisis,” said CNN’s Don Lemon around 11:20 p.m.

[ A Green New Deal ignites an old red scare ]

The future historian from the 22nd century will also hear plenty of lofty rhetoric and ambitious policy: Harris arguing that food labels should include a measure of environmental impact; Klobuchar equating confronting climate change with landing on the moon or passing civil rights legislation; former Texas congressman Beto O’Rourke saying he would ban offshore drilling but not implement a carbon tax; Booker saying he wants zero-emission electricity by 2030 and a carbon-neutral country by 2045.Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Kamala Harris (Calif.).In seven hours on CNN, the leading Democratic candidates showed the first signs of weaponizing climate change in the primary campaign.”

Harris came out in favor of blowing up the filibuster for the Green New Deal: “Sen.Kamala D. Harris followed the release on Wednesday of her $10 trillion climate change plan that aims for a carbon-neutral economy by 2045 with a pledge to end the Senate’s filibuster if needed to pass a 'Green New Deal,'" our colleagues Chelsea Janes and Colby Itkowitz report.Kamala D. Harris followed the release on Wednesday of her $10 trillion climate change plan that aims for a carbon-neutral economy by 2045 with a pledge to end the Senate’s filibuster if needed to pass a 'Green New Deal,'" our colleagues Chelsea Janes and Colby Itkowitz report.While we don’t yet have the scoop on just what amazing eight women will be honored in the magazine this time around (last year, the list included Kamala Harris and March for Our Lives activists), we do have the deets on the magazine’s two-day Women of the Year summit in New York.In a new third tier we find Sen. Kamala D. Harris and South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg.Kamala D. Harris — 5.Scott Wilson reports: “After a three-month trial and jury deliberations that ran another five weeks, Max Harris was acquitted on all 36 counts, one for each of the victims who died trying to escape a sudden fire that burned through an artist collective known as the Ghost Ship.When Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) says she is going to prosecute the case against Trump, she — or whoever is the nominee — had better get ready to try him in absentia.“I believe they’re going to try to figure out who can reassemble that Obama coalition.”

Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) has been forced to play pundit more than she might prefer lately, as reporters begin to ask about her stagnant polling numbers more and more — at almost every one of her public appearances in the past two weeks.“The issue of polls to me, depending on the polls, sample size, the day of the week — I’m not riding polls,” Harris said.On her Twitter account, Ms. Harris said it had been “upsetting” to watch a video of the exchange.Responses to Ms. Harris’s apology on Twitter were mixed.Mr. Berns said he was glad to see Ms. Harris apologize.When some on the right raised questions about Harris' heritage, Booker tweeted Harris "doesn't have s--- to prove."Harris is reportedly fond of a compound swear word involving a female parent, and she used it in a 2017 New York Times interview.As of this past week, Buttigieg had 100 staffers on the ground, the largest organization in the state, competing with Warren, Harris and others who have had substantial operations for months.“We've seen candidates who had great debate stage moments, and they maybe got a bump in the polls, and then they went back down or they stayed flat,” he said, taking a quick swipe at Sen. Kamala D. Harris of California, too.Buttigieg and Harris also were up on Trump, by the high single digits.Joe Biden — 24%

Elizabeth Warren — 20%

Bernie Sanders — 16%

Pete Buttigieg — 5%

Kamala Harris — 5%

Andrew Yang — 3%

Beto O'Rourke — 2%

John Delaney — 1%

Tulsi Gabbard — 1%

Amy Klobuchar — 1%

Tim Ryan -1%

Another week, another big delta between Democratic voters' personal preference and their expectation of who other people might vote for.Kamala Harris.Separately, she apologized for how she handled a questioner at a New Hampshire event; he had ended a statement by calling Trump “mentally retarded,” something Harris said she did not hear when she congratulated him for his “well said” question.But after this week, Sen. Kamala Harris of California was on board with the concept, too, something that terrified a generation of Democrats who feared being called “gun grabbers.” And Democratic voters were happy to hear it.McCready ran against Republican Mark Harris in 2018, and appeared to narrowly lose in the November election, before allegations of absentee ballot fraud prompted the state elections board to call a new election.In the initial election in November, Harris appeared to lead McCready by 905 votes, but while a lopsided share of absentee ballots were counted favored Harris, an overwhelming amount of ballots requested but never returned or counted came from areas likely to favor McCready.A contractor working for Harris' campaign, convicted felon Leslie McCrae Dowless, was accused of illegally collecting hundreds of absentee ballots during the race, throwing the true outcome into question.Harris announced shortly afterward that he would not be running in the new election.Contributions,

April-June Contributions,

April-June Bernie Sanders Sanders $ 25.2m $ 18.0m Elizabeth Warren Warren $ 24.6m $ 19.2m Pete Buttigieg Buttigieg $ 19.1m $ 24.9m Joseph R. Biden Jr. Biden $ 15.7m $ 22.0m Kamala Harris Harris $ 11.7m $ 11.8m Andrew Yang Yang $ 9.9m $ 2.8m Cory Booker Booker $ 6.0m $ 4.5m Amy Klobuchar Klobuchar $ 4.8m $ 3.9m Beto O’Rourke O’Rourke $ 4.5m $ 3.6m Julián Castro Castro $ 3.5m $ 2.8m Marianne Williamson Williamson $ 3.1m $ 1.5m Tulsi Gabbard Gabbard $ 3.0m $ 1.6m Steve Bullock Bullock $ 2.3m $ 2.1m Michael Bennet Bennet $ 2.1m $ 2.8m Tom Steyer Steyer $ 2.0m — John Delaney Delaney $ 0.5m $ 0.3m Tim Ryan Ryan $ 0.4m $ 0.9m Joe Sestak Sestak $ 0.4m — Wayne Messam Messam < $ 0.1m < $ 0.1m + View all candidates Source: Federal Election Commission · Candidates in the chart without donation numbers joined the race after the financial disclosure reporting deadline.The presentations ranged from bland and un-engaging (Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard) to formulaic (Julián Castro) to impressive (South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg) to emotionally riveting (Sen. Kamala D. Harris).The last candidate to speak was Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), who made good use of her position to take some extra time, rolling out her veterans plan released earlier in the day.This is where Harris thrives, in empathetic listening and relating back to the questioner her understanding of their pain.The questioner was clearly overcome by the amount of time Harris spent talking to her.Once more, we saw that Harris’s best moments are often those in one-on-one conversations in which she can show what she knows, but more importantly, show how much she understands and empathizes with her fellow Americans.The public imagination turns all great authors into one cozy, folksy character dispensing facile and comforting sayings, as if all world literature were just raw ingredients for the next edition of “Chicken Soup for the Soul.”

It may be tempting to treat the counterfeit “Something that is loved is never lost” as a gotcha moment and indulge in mocking laughter of Harris’s staff for being taken in.For instance, the problem with Harris’s “Something that is loved is never lost” is not just that Morrison didn’t say it, but that Morrison’s work is explicitly about how, through the bad choices of the powerful, people can lose everything they love, and this loss can echo through generations.Interestingly, in advance of Thursday’s debate, Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) has put out an exhaustive plan.And it would spend more than $75 billion on support services outside prisons, including “Back on Track” training and assistance programs, which Ms. Harris pioneered in California.AD

(APPLAUSE)

STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Kamala Harris?Now, on the last debate stage in Detroit, you said that wasn’t true, when Senator Harris brought that up.Senator Harris, you released your plan for that just this week.DAVIS: Thank you, Senator Harris.Senator Harris, you have said that you would take executive action on guns within your first 100 days...

HARRIS: Correct.(APPLAUSE)

MUIR: Senator Harris, thank you.(APPLAUSE)

STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Harris, how would your trade policy differ from President Obama's?When we look at this issue, my trade policy, under a Harris administration, is always going to be about saying, we need to export American products, not American jobs.I’m not even going to take the bait, Senator Harris.(APPLAUSE)

RAMOS: Sen. Harris, 45 seconds.DAVIS: Sen. Harris, 45 seconds to respond.Senator Harris?(APPLAUSE)

STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Harris, thank you very much.The next closest candidate is Sen. Kamala Harris at 7%.In the lead-up to the debate, depending on the poll, Harris’s support was between five percent and seven percent.Harris scored her first breakout moment on the second night when she admonished her bickering fellow candidates, “Hey, guys, you know what?America does not want to witness a food fight, they want to know how we are going to put food on their table.” In the second hour of the debate, Harris took her shot.The Harris campaign announced that it raised more than $2 million in the 24 hours after the debate.Harris’s attack on Biden for opposing court-ordered busing in the 1970s got muddled as she answered questions about what she would do today.Harris’s poll numbers have dropped ever since.Paradoxically, Harris has also been hobbled by the perception that she can’t take a punch.When Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii) took her shot at Harris over her criminal-justice record as attorney general of California, many thought she was defensive and unprepared for the attack, which feeds into the just-below-the-surface concern that she can’t take on Trump.Nevertheless, Harris’s poll numbers dropped.AD

AD

That Gabbard punch was a no-win for Harris.Yet for Harris, entertaining the attack by punching down and giving more airtime to a campaign gasping at one percent was perhaps a long-term strategic tactic that has hurt her in the short term.https://t.co/mNmo1hyNpW — Kamala Harris (@KamalaHarris) September 7, 2019

— Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) apologized after she appeared to agree with a voter at a campaign event in New Hampshire who said Trump’s actions are “mentally retarded.”

“It was not something I really heard or processed,” she told CBS News.Harris responded with a laugh and said: “Well said, well said.”

Harris told the voter she would use her power to support immigrants and that “ “unless you are Native American, or your ancestors were kidnapped and brought over on a slave ship, your people are immigrants.So let’s just be honest about that, and speak our values based on our shared lived values.”

After the video of the exchange circulated, Harris tweeted: “I didn't hear the words the man used in that moment..If I had I would’ve stopped and corrected him.I’m sorry.”

“Harris recently released a plan aimed to improve opportunities for disabled Americans, the first candidate in the sprawling Democratic field to do so,” our Post colleague Chelsea Janes reports.“In that plan, Harris promised to create new senior-level positions in the White House to focus on accessibility for people with disabilities, as well as requiring those receiving federal funding for transportation and housing projects to demonstrate that their plans are fully accessible.”

Democratic congressional candidate Susan Wild poses for a photograph in Bethlehem, Pa. (Matt Rourke/AP)

— Rep. Susan Wild, a freshman Democrat from Pennsylvania, is turning grief into action after her longtime partner took his own life earlier this year.But both parties have poured millions of dollars into the 9th, where the November 2018 election between Democrat Dan McCready and Republican Mark Harris was thrown out after revelations of Republican ballot fraud.The party's new nominee, state legislator Dan Bishop, had none of Harris's baggage and a little of his own; he had sponsored the state's unpopular “bathroom bill,” which limits what restrooms transgender people can use, leading to a business backlash that helped defeat then-Gov.McCready netted 9,188 votes out of Mecklenburg, while Harris netted 17,519 from Union.That performance, coupled with the fraud in Bladen County, helped Harris eke out an apparent win by less than 1,000 votes.And the one person who stands to benefit from this is Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.).But the Essence-Black Women’s Roundtable survey shows it to be a four-person contest with Harris firmly in the mix.Notice how Harris, the only black woman in the contest, gets more support the 18-to-34-year-olds than she does with the entire group of black women.With “criminal justice and policing reform” the top issue for these young women, the criminal justice plan Harris released Monday will be of great interest.Despite the polls, I’ve long believed Harris was stronger than it appears on the surface.The candidates mostly focused on cracking down on pharmaceutical companies for their role in causing the opioid epidemic, with Harris and Castro calling for locking up pharmaceutical executives — a grabby way to talk about the issue, but one that sidesteps the other serious discussions we need.“The one- to two-year challenges are very much apparent,” said Kate Harris, chief deputy commissioner at the Colorado Division of Insurance.“We have to think about building an infrastructure to address this epidemic,” Harris told reporters.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) told reporters in New Hampshire on Friday that mandatory buybacks were “a good idea.”

“There is just this sort of liberation among the candidates that I see,” said Rep. Eric Swalwell (D-Calif.), who mounted a brief presidential effort this year focused on a mandatory buyback platform.As she spoke, Harris’s head bobbed for emphasis and her voice crescendoed and seemed to shake when she hit the line, “That child was me,” and turned to look Biden square in the eye.And Harris has company.), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) and South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg have all expressed their support for the California bill.And Sen. Kamala D. Harris’s seven-point lead is her third-biggest.), Harris (Calif.) and Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind.And the ABC-Washington Post poll finds Americans preferring the top Democratic candidates (Joe Biden, Elizabeth Warren, Bernie Sanders, and Kamala Harris) to Trump by double-digit margins.and Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.).Shane Harris and Ellen Nakashima report: “The Russian Kommersant newspaper reported Tuesday that Oleg Smolenkov, whom it described as a ‘missing’ employee of the Russian presidential administration, was spotted in the United States.( Kate Harrison Belz and Andrew Freedman )

VIDEOS OF THE DAY:

Apple released its newest iPhones, which have more cameras for better photo quality:

(Heather Kelly and Reed Albergotti tell you all you need to know about Apple's newest products.)Trump also trails Harris by seven points among registered voters and is 10 percentage points back among all adults.Trump runs statistically even with men when matched against Biden and at least slightly ahead against Sanders, Warren, Harris and Buttigieg.Senator Kamala Harris’s “Medicare for All” proposal.No Deal: Trump Offers Zero-Tariff Deal, EU Refuses In a discussion on the developing trade tensions between the EU and the US, Faculty Affiliate Ann Harrison says that the Trump Administration’s tariff moves have been shocking because few expected the president to follow through with these threats and because it involves the US’ closest allies.In Mexico’s own Motor City, billion-dollar investments but also fear of Trump’s trade moves Faculty Affiliate Ann Harrison reflects on the impact of President Trump’s efforts to bring the auto industry back to the US and its effects on industrial Mexican cities such as El Bajio.“Renegotiating NAFTA and protectionist measures against China will not save jobs,” Faculty Affiliate Ann Harrison said, arguing that the decline in manufacturing jobs was due to labor-saving management and technologies.Faculty Affiliate Ann Harrison comments on the problems with focusing on manufacturing over service jobs for the United States.Trade Is the Scapegoat for Political Failure Faculty Affiliate Ann Harrison commented on the hot button issues of trade and globalization in this article for Bloomberg View:



“The idea behind globalization is the winners, the exporters, the consumers, are so much richer that it is easy and straightforward to redistribute some of the winnings to compensate the losers.That turned out not to be true.”



“Our package for helping the losers, Trade Adjustment Assistance, helped only about half those that it should have helped,” Harrison continued.So to try to bring those jobs back through tariffs is going to actually make things worse,” says Faculty Affiliate Ann Harrison.Trade Has Less Of An Impact On Job Conversions And Wages Than We Think In the POTUS 2016 show’s segment on Evidence Based Politics, Faculty Affiliate Ann Harrison discusses why the focus on trade and its effect on American jobs is overly simplified and too basic.In the face of policies suggesting tariffs and other protective measures, Harrison is adamant that these laws will only encourage retaliation without alleviating the core problem.Although Mexico stands to benefit from the dynamics in global currency markets at the present timem ”obviously, more currency weakness in China would erase part of these gains [on the part of Mexico,] because Mexico competes head-to-head with China for exports of auto parts, electronics, toys and clothing to the U.S. market.”

Protectionism in Trade is Not Dead…Yet According to Faculty Affiliate Ann Harrison, today’s anti-dumping and countervailing duty policies are common forms of protectionism used by most large countries including the U.S., EU, India, China and Mexico, although, she noted, the policies are sometimes put forth as a way to enforce fair trade.“Brazilian orange juice, Mexican tomatoes … the list goes on and on,” Harrison said, adding that the tariffs can be very high for products believed to give unfair advantages to foreign firms.Questioning Free Trade: Protectionism Is Not Dead “Many countries have tried to use protectionism to nurture their home industries — but even though it makes sense in theory, countries screw it up about 75% of the time,” says Faculty Affiliate Ann Harrison.Warren and Harris, the two top-polling women, will also appear on the same stage for the first time.Entrepreneur Andrew Yang, Mayor of South Bend, Ind., Pete Buttigieg, Former Vice President Joe Biden, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders and California Sen. Kamala Harris arrive on stage for the second night of the first Democratic primary debate on June 27, 2019.California Sen. Kamala Harris, 54

Harris came up through California politics, serving as the District Attorney of San Francisco from 2004 to 2011 and the Attorney General of California from 2011 until 2017.Because Biden is is the presumed front-runner, he will likely also face attacks from Booker, Harris, Yang and other candidates to his left.According to RealClearPolitics’s national polling average on Sept. 12, the candidates in the debate have the following polling averages:

26.8% for Biden

17.3% for Sanders

16.8% for Warren

6.5% for Harris

4.8% for Buttigieg

3.0% for Yang

2.8% for O’Rourke

2.3% for Booker

1.2% for Klobuchar

1.0% for Castro

Masket says that on average, there has been “little movement” in the polls for many of the candidates since early spring when the campaign season really heated up.He is now consistently in the same range as Booker and O’Rourke … He does poll better in Iowa, though, so he is not dead.”

Harris has also see her numbers decline since her initial spike after the first debate, which Kondik says “just goes to show the changes that we see from these debates may not be enduring, if they even occur at all.”

Victor also cautions against reading too much into polls, because at this stage in the race many voters haven’t made up their minds and are heavily influenced by name recognition.California Sen. Kamala D. Harris and Former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Joaquin Castro have also said they support the bill.Kamala Harris: Are you actually much more liberal than you let on?AD

Harris frequently makes a very liberal remark only to walk it back days later.Kamala Harris (Calif.) and Cory Booker (N.J.), who have scrutinized his record in the previous debates.It accused her of ‘conduct unbecoming a federal employee.’ … Delaney’s attorney, Cathy Harris, said in a statement: ‘This is one of the starkest examples of direct retaliation for whistleblowing that I have seen.There’s nothing you could offer insurers that would make them accept Medicare-for-all, since one of its main justifications is that insurers are leeches who provide no added value and suck billions of dollars out of the system, so we need to get rid of them (or, in the case of a plan like that of Sen. Kamala D. Harris, restrict what they can offer so much that they will no longer be able to extract anything like the profits they make now).Whoever says, as Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) did, “The American people are so much better than this” needs to get out more.Harris was prosecutorial.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) has at least 17 planned.Some Harris donors expressed concerns about her shifting rhetoric on health care.For example, after a headline-grabbing performance in the first debate in June, Harris saw a donation bump that propelled her to a top-five haul in the second quarter.“The same way we tried to tell Hillary Clinton’s people in August 2015 that the emails are a big deal, and you can’t just poo-poo the emails.”

Harris, who raised about $12 million in the second quarter, held a fundraiser here on Friday morning and was slated to tap some celebrity star power later in the day at a Chicago fundraiser featuring Star Jones, a former co-host of ABC’s “The View.” On Sept. 23, Harris will hold a California fundraiser hosted by actor Don Cheadle.I want to have a link” to her campaign, said the Democratic fundraiser who was at the Harris meeting and is raising money for multiple candidates.On Thursday, it took Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) to elevate that discussion and to remind Americans what is really at stake for health care in next year’s election.But at least five people have talked, some repeatedly, on this subject, and not once have we talked about Donald Trump,” Harris noted before ticking off the efforts that the administration has made and is continuing to make to gut the health-care law.AD

“If we don’t get Donald Trump out of office,” Harris added, “he’s going to get rid of all of it.”

On the question of racial justice, Sen. Cory Booker (N.J.) was the one who brought both eloquence and critical perspective with his reminder that the problems with race in this country did not begin with Trump and will not end when he is gone.And Kamala D. Harris turned on too early, back at the first debate.Kamala D. Harris — 5.Steve Bullock RETURNS TO RANKING

Falls off ranking: Tulsi Gabbard

Last week’s ranking: Round 31 | Welcome to the third tier, Kamala Harris

Don’t forget to click on the yellow highlighted text above to expand the Ranking Committee’s annotations.https://t.co/T37EaVOvlU #DemDebate pic.twitter.com/dxPrvCpo6C — ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) September 13, 2019

11:31 p.m.: Harris defends her prosecutorial record, says she's still introducing herself to the American people

Sen. Kamala Harris defended her prosecutorial record in the spin room after ABC News' Democratic debate, and challenged the notion that she does not have support in the African-American community.A large part of my career as a courtroom prosecutor was handling cases that affected crimes against women and children," Harris said."Absolutely," Kamala Harris tells ABC News when asked if she's proud of her work as a prosecutor, adding that she became a prosecutor "because I just have a very strong and natural desire to want to protect people and in particular, our most vulnerable" https://t.co/T37EaVOvlU pic.twitter.com/SvV5Lzmlnu — ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) September 13, 2019

"There's an incredible amount of support there.I am still introducing myself to people and working on earning the votes of people," Harris said about her strategy to court African-American voters.California Sen. Kamala Harris answered by ticking through her many uphill battles on her way to becoming a U.S.10:12 p.m.: Harris touts her plan for Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs)

Sen. Harris, a graduate of Howard University, touted her plan to invest more in Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) like Texas Southern University.I have -- as part of my proposal, that we will put $2 trillion into investing in our HBCUs for teachers, because -- because -- because, one, as a proud graduate of a historically black college and university, I will say -- I will say that it is our HBCUs that disproportionately produce teachers and those who serve in these positions," Harris said.Harris went after congressional Republicans over the issue, saying that their inaction shows a "lack of courage.""When I've been in the United States Senate for now the last two and a half years and I look at our counterparts, the Republicans in the United States Senate, they must be looking at their children and then when they look at the mirror, I don't know what they see, but it's a lack of courage," Harris said.9:36 p.m.: Harris navigates the debate on trade

California Sen. Kamala Harris, who was asked how her trade policy would differ than former President Obama's, said, "When we look at this issue, my trade policy, under a Harris administration, is always going to be about saying, we need to export American products, not American jobs.Mike Blake/Reuters

As she has done several times throughout the debate, Harris then hit at President Trump, asserting in jest, "But the bottom line is this, Donald Trump in office on trade policy, you know, he reminds me of that guy in "The Wizard of Oz," you know, when you pull back the curtain, it's a really small dude?"https://t.co/841peOsUXt — ABC News (@ABC) September 13, 2019

8:57 p.m. Harris again calls back to Obama, also praises O'Rourke's response to the El Paso shooting

Harris, as multiple candidates on stage have already done, invoked former President Barack Obama and his signature campaign slogan when discussing her ability to carry out gun control via executive order.I have hugged more mothers of homicide victims than I care to tell you," Harris said.You know, people asked me in El Paso, they said, you know, because I have a long-standing record on this issue," Harris said.8:47 p.m.: Conversation turns to criminal justice reform, and Harris' prosecutorial record comes under scrutiny

The conversation around racism then turned towards criminal justice reform, and Sen. Kamala Harris' record as a prosecutor came under direct scrutiny, a record she defended.One, I've always wanted to protect people and keep them safe and second, I was born knowing about how this criminal justice system in America has worked in a way that has been informed by racial bias," Harris said.And as President of the United States, knowing the system from the inside, I will have the ability to be an effective leader and get this job complete," Harris added.8:31 p.m.: Kamala Harris cheers Obama, slams Trump

After the second Democratic debate saw former President Barack Obama's legacy criticized, California Sen. Kamala Harris praised him: "I want to give credit to Barack Obama for bringing us this far."https://t.co/T37EaVOvlU #DemDebate pic.twitter.com/vvupnzXtUp — ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) September 13, 2019

8:17 p.m.: The top four candidates also give opening statements

California Sen. Kamala Harris targets President Donald Trump: "But here's what you don't get.7:49pm The ABC News moderators take the stage

The four moderators for the third Democratic debate - ABC News Chief Anchor George Stephanopoulos, ABC News "World News Tonight" Anchor and Managing Editor David Muir, ABC News Correspondent Linsey Davis and Univision Anchor Jorge Ramos will moderate - introduce the candidates on stage in order of their podium placements:

Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar

New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker

South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg

Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders

Former Vice President Joe Biden

Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren

California Sen. Kamala Harris

Entrepreneur Andrew Yang

Former Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke

Former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julián Castro

ABC News

7:37 p.m. DNC Chair Tom Perez goes in on President Trump "Stop tweeting"

DNC Chair Tom Perez criticized the president, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and others in Republican leadership, admonishing the president to "stop tweeting" and start governing.https://t.co/RpftOWjcQC pic.twitter.com/gUrvuUdlaM — ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) September 12, 2019

6: 20 pm Harris shouts out ABC News and HBCU debate host

Earlier on Thursday, Sen. Kamala Harris shouted out debate host site, Texas State University, a public historically black college and the location of ABC News' presidential debate.https://t.co/ynjSXAIzqs — Kamala Harris (@KamalaHarris) September 12, 2019

5:57 p.m. Trump talks debate watch plans, offers thoughts on Democratic candidates

He won't be tuning in live, but President Trump still plans to watch tonight's debate.And here are some common themes

· 8 candidates attended law school – Biden, Booker, Castro, Harris, Klobuchar, and Yang

· Columbia, Harvard, Stanford and Yale will be represented on the debate stage.And some Senate themes

· Booker, Harris, Klobuchar all serve on the Senate Judiciary committee."The reality is that our plan will bring health care to all Americans under a Medicare for All system," said California Sen. Kamala Harris, defending her plan which is more of a hybrid health insurance system that allows private companies to be able to offer health insurance plans within the Medicare system for consumers.Harris invokes her prosecutorial past and compelling backstory to appeal to a broad coalition -- often telling voters as she did in the last debate, "I come from fighters ... My sister Maya and I joke we grew up surrounded by a bunch of adults that marched about this thing called 'justice.'Biden said that “anyone who can’t afford it gets automatically enrolled in the Medicare-type option we have, et cetera.”

Prosecutors: Both Harris and Klobuchar, as former prosecutors, faced brutal questions about their records — particularly when it comes to racial justice.Harris responded to reservations about her tough-on-crime record by saying, “I made a decision that if I was going to have the ability to reform the system, I was going to have to do it from the inside,” but she admitted she had not done enough.We knew this was a hurdle, especially for Harris.When Medicare-for-all was at issue, Harris said, “Frankly, I think this discussion is giving the American public a headache.” While Buttigieg was trying to make a similar point, Castro cut in and said, “That’s called an election.” He was right.AD

AD

Harris’s zingers: Harris seemed to enjoy her “yes we can” line a lot more than the crowd and laughed pretty heartily.“When you pull back the curtain, it’s a really small dude,” Harris said.ABC’s George Stephanopoulos responded, “I’m not even going to take the bait.” Harris said, again laughing, “It wasn’t about you!” (Stephanopoulos seemed to be referring to something besides his own small stature.)If you’re Kamala Harris or Pete Buttigieg, the good news is that you’re still in the next tier, well below the top three, and not at the bottom.AD

AD

Harris was charismatic.His low-energy performance did not show he was the person to do that, but Harris’s suggested she could.If Harris can keep this up, she is positioned to pick up former supporters of any of the top three if they falter.Picking Harris would be the obvious choice as she adds age, gender, ethnic and regional balance.A Washington Post-ABC News survey released this week showed Trump trailing four Democratic candidates in hypothetical general-election matchups: former vice president Joe Biden, Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Sen. Kamala Harris of California."And now, President Trump, you can go back to watching Fox News," Sen. Kamala Harris of California said at the end of her opening remarks, which she dedicated to attacking the president for "trying to sow hate and division."Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., and Kamala Harris, D-Calif., called out the president's penchant for announcing trade policy through tweet.Sen. Kamala Harris (Calif.) called him out in her opening statement on Thursday and suggested that Trump has been “tweeting out the ammunition” for mass shootings such as the one in El Paso.11 minutes: California Sen. Kamala D. Harris has planned a novel rhetorical device.Harris says her plan is “about offering people choice, not taking that from them.”

AD

AD

31 minutes: Biden is still not done.Buttigieg speaks about “transcending the framework” that “pits a single black mother of three against a displaced autoworker.”

46 minutes: Harris gets a tough question about why she didn’t accomplish more as a prosecutor in reforming the criminal justice system.“We can use trade to help build a stronger economy.”

96 minutes: Harris uses the trade question to uncork a manliness shot on Trump, returning to her prosecute the case theme.“I’m not even going to take the bait, Senator Harris,” he says.“Oh, George, it wasn’t about you,” says Harris.Harris talks about the challenge of being the “first black woman” in many jobs.AD

Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) and South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg came into the debate with things to prove.Harris has fallen back after winning plaudits for her first debate performance.https://t.co/yxEHnQuOdO — Ady Barkan🔥🌹 (@AdyBarkan) September 13, 2019

Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) said she wanted to give Obama credit for making the expansion of health coverage a top priority more than a decade ago.“We would not be here if he hadn’t the courage, the talent or the will to see us this far,” Harris said.Harris – who has been criticized for being squishy on how far Medicare-for-all should go – was the sole candidate to focus on Trump’s actions against the ACA.— Kamala Harris (@KamalaHarris) September 13, 2019

Three hours, not one question on abortion—with women's rights under attack across our country.Cory Booker (N.J.) and Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) in not attack anyone else onstage.Democratic presidential hopefuls Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.), tech entrepreneur Andrew Yang and former Texas congressman Beto O'Rourke participate in the third Democratic primary debate Thursday in Houston.“Beto, God love you for standing so courageously in the midst of that tragedy,” Harris said.Sen. Kamala D. Harris.Harris compares Trump to the Wizard: “But the bottom line is this: Donald Trump, in office on trade policy, you know, he reminds me of that guy in 'The Wizard of Oz,' when you pull back the curtain, it's a really small dude?”

“But the bottom line is this: Donald Trump, in office on trade policy, you know, he reminds me of that guy in 'The Wizard of Oz,' when you pull back the curtain, it's a really small dude?” … And she also trotted out Obama’s old slogan: “I would just say: Hey Joe, instead of saying no, we can't, let's say yes, we can.”

“I would just say: Hey Joe, instead of saying no, we can't, let's say yes, we can.” Booker makes a bald joke: “I'm the only person on this stage that finds Trudeau's hair very menacing, but they are not a national security threat.”

“I'm the only person on this stage that finds Trudeau's hair very menacing, but they are not a national security threat.” And also has some hard feelings about penguins: “And here's a bit of advice to everybody.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.): Her droll monotone was occasionally interrupted by an overacting laugh.But it was potentially a breakthrough evening for Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.), who has slipped in recent polling.Viewers saw what might be called “Harris Unplugged.” She was far looser, leavened her arguments with humor, and largely kept her focus on Trump.● Sen. Kamala Harris: “My plan has been described by activists as being a bold and comprehensive plan that is about ending mass incarceration, about taking the profit out of the criminal justice system.Catching himself in rocky terrain — this was the general domain where Harris blasted him in June, after all — he settled back into a place where he felt familiar.His response to Harris in that first debate, for example, ended with his meekly noting that his time was up and stopping.“The #DemDebate was three hours long and not one question about abortion or reproductive rights,” Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) tweeted minutes later.AD

There were more mixed views of Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) and South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg, two candidates who burned hot earlier this year and now have encountered a far cooler stretch.Kamala Harris (Calif.) and Elizabeth Warren (Mass.“He was put on the Court through a sham process and his place on the Court is an insult to the pursuit of truth and justice,” Harris wrote of Kavanaugh.“Kamala Harris was ready to brawl from the beginning,” by Matt Flegenheimer

The story of the senator's first campaign, which hasn't yet resonated on the trail.AD

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) wrote that the “far left’s willingness to seize on completely uncorroborated and unsubstantiated allegations during last year’s confirmation process was a dark and embarrassing chapter for the Senate.”

Impeachment calls came from Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.AD

“He was put on the Court through a sham process and his place on the Court is an insult to the pursuit of truth and justice,” Harris said in a tweet.I will win Ohio.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Kamala Harris has taken Biden to task for his record on race.Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.):

Harris has struggled throughout the campaign to define exactly where she stands on the role of private insurance.Harris’s campaign confirmed that Rohini Kosoglu, her Senate chief of staff, volunteered her time to help develop that plan.Harris has also touted influence and support from Kathleen Sebelius for her plan.Mayor Pete Buttigieg:

Like Harris, Buttigieg is another candidate who has softened his stance on Medicare-for-all by saying he prefers something he calls “Medicare-for-all-who-want-it” — although he hasn’t yet released details on what such a system might look like.Clamoring for impeachment were Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.and Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), as well as Julián Castro, are arguing for impeachment on the theory that Kavanaugh lied about his past conduct and engaged in sexually abusive behavior.Kamala Harris wanted to go to a black school.That’s what black folks called Howard University in the early 1980s when Harris was a teenager considering her future.Harris, she would say later, was seeking an experience wholly different from what she had long known.And Harris’s younger sister would eventually enroll at Stanford.Harris wanted to be surrounded by black students, black culture and black traditions at the crown jewel of historically black colleges and universities.“When you’re at an HBCU,” Harris says, “and especially one with the size and with the history of Howard University — and also in the context of also being in D.C., which was known forever as being ‘Chocolate City’ — it just becomes about you understanding that there is a whole world of people who are like you.At Howard, Harris would be studying in the same classrooms as Toni Morrison and Zora Neale Hurston, Stokely Carmichael and Amiri Baraka, striding past the law school that educated Supreme Court justice Thurgood Marshall and civil rights activist Vernon Jordan.It was where Harris could become the woman that her mother always knew her to be: unquestionably, simply, black.(Photo by Kate Patterson for The Washington Post) Like many other students, Harris was drawn to Howard because of its legacy.(Photo by Kate Patterson for The Washington Post) RIGHT: Like many other students, Harris was drawn to Howard because of its legacy.[Post Reports: ‘They see that swagger when Harris speaks’: How Howard University shaped Kamala Harris]

As Harris campaigns for the Democratic presidential nomination, Howard is central to the 54-year-old senator’s personal narrative and her political identity.Only hours after announcing her candidacy in January on “Good Morning America,” Harris stood at a lectern at Howard where she took questions from reporters.It was a homecoming as political tableau, with Harris telling all who were listening that the university is “one of the most important aspects of my life.”

She touts her membership in Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority, the oldest of the historically black sororities and one that was founded at Howard.“I became an adult at Howard University,” Harris says in an interview.“Howard very directly influenced and reinforced — equally important — my sense of being and meaning and reasons for being.”

A world of black abundance

Harris was 17 when she arrived at Howard her freshman year.Kamala Harris

Harris was surrounded by first-generation college students, but also the black elite, children of professionals who had attended predominantly white schools.All of it awakened Harris to the empowerment that comes from being part of a multitude.“It was more, for me, about the numerosity than it was the diversity,” Harris says.And they’re all in your age group, in your phase of life.”

As a kid, Harris had always been one of the few — a test case, as well as a foreigner.During the first Democratic debate in June, Harris recalled how she’d helped integrate Thousand Oaks Elementary School in Berkeley when she was bused from her modest neighborhood to a wealthier, whiter part of the city.In her recounting, Harris was a first-grader in pigtails, a leading character in the grand social experiment of diversity by school board mandate.Harris attended mostly white schools in Berkeley, Calif., and Montreal.(Courtesy of Kamala Harris) Harris's mother, Shyamala, an immigrant from India, was 25 when she had her baby girl.(Courtesy of Kamala Harris) Harris's father, Donald, an immigrant from Jamaica, holds her in April 1965.(Courtesy of Kamala Harris)

TOP: Harris attended mostly white schools in Berkeley, Calif., and Montreal.(Courtesy of Kamala Harris) BOTTOM LEFT: Harris's mother, Shyamala, an immigrant from India, was 25 when she had her baby girl.(Courtesy of Kamala Harris) BOTTOM RIGHT: Harris's father, Donald, an immigrant from Jamaica, holds her in April 1965.Harris’s personal stories about race are emotional but spare.At 12, Harris and her sister moved to Montreal with their mother.Harris struggled to learn French at a public school, Notre-Dame-des-Neiges, near the hospital.A truth became clear to her: “It is not a niche to be black in America.”

Harris threw herself into a world of black abundance, into a place where there was a constant drumbeat of exceptionalism.They see it in Harris now — in her impatient questioning as a senator, in her tone of voice as a candidate that can read as confident, cocky and condescending all at once.Fierce, poised and ‘pulled together’

Harris’s first dorm was an off-campus apartment building leased by the university.Harris’s energy wasn’t focused on what ailed the city or its complicated politics.Melanie Flowers marched alongside Harris.As a Howard freshman, Harris and classmate Gwen Whitfield attend a protest demanding an end to apartheid and calling for divestment from South Africa.(Courtesy of Kamala Harris)

This was years before “woke” became a righteous declaration, decades before black Twitter outrage and the emergence of cancel culture.Flowers and Harris didn’t get arrested.Harris built enduring female friendships at Howard — relationships that as an adult have been nurtured across hundreds of miles and despite political differences.At Howard, Harris has said, women could be “homecoming queen and a valedictorian.” Black beauty and intelligence were bound tightly in a complex web, one that reflected a history in which black Americans were derided as having neither.The central grassy plaza known as the The Yard was a place for peacocking, especially on Friday afternoons, when Harris joined the parade of students wearing Ralph Lauren polo shirts, creased Calvin Klein jeans, silk blouses and high heels.Even now, Harris’s style is always “pulled together.” That’s the phrase favored by alumni.Kamala Harris

Harris was among a group of freshman women who caught the eye of the brothers from Kappa Alpha Psi fraternity.But when Harris was at Howard, students delighted in pretty girls in tiaras wearing bedazzled sashes.Harris threw her own parties when she’d housesit for Pomerance, her mother’s friend, who lived in Washington’s Kalorama Triangle neighborhood.Sophomore year, Harris moved onto campus and into Slowe Hall.“Kamala was always concerned with your life goals,” Gibbs says.“She was always the realist.”

Harris, an economics major, wanted to pursue law and was considering public service.On Sundays, Harris and Gibbs explored the city’s black churches.To hear Harris speak in front of a large audiences now, when her voice rises for emphasis, you can hear the cadences of traditional black preachers — an almost lyrical quality that can turn an excoriation into something more poetic.When Harris greets smaller crowds, the fiery hermeneutics are tamped down.This is Harris as soror.(Marvin Joseph/The Washington Post) Harris and her Howard classmates.(Marvin Joseph/The Washington Post) RIGHT: Harris and her Howard classmates.Harris was one of 38 women who pledged AKA in 1986.It was late to pledge a sorority, but Harris had spent much of her sophomore year focused on debate.Harris was intent on joining, she says, because “one of the people in my life who had a great deal of influence on me was my Auntie Chris, and she went to Howard University and pledged AKA,” referring to family friend Christine Simmons, a former chapter president, who died in 2015.And every one of those papers was either pink or green.”

In the late winter cold, Harris stood shoulder to shoulder with her “line sisters” in front of Rankin Chapel.Harris didn’t have much time to enjoy undergraduate sorority life.In June, when Harris paid a campaign visit to Columbia, S.C., she was invited to stand on the side porch of a grand mansion, where ceiling fans swirled in the steamy air, to sell herself to potential voters — many of them black and most of them women.She was introduced by a fiercely poised soror who attested to Harris’s integrity by simply calling her a “sister of the ivy.”



Harris mingles at the Alpha Kappa Alpha Pink Ice Gala in Columbia, S.C., in January.(Elijah Nouvelage/Bloomberg News)

By the time Harris graduated from Howard in 1986, black centrism had notched more victories: Jesse Jackson had energized the campus with his presidential bid.Martin Luther King Jr. And Harris was headed to the UC Hastings College of the Law in San Francisco.“If you’re born black, you better be prepared if you are going to play on the court of life not to take time out and complain,” Gray said, “but to run faster, shoot straighter and jump higher.”

Looking back, Harris sees Howard as symbolic of the experience of black people writ large.“Some of the most robust, well-attended and vibrant classes were about the African diaspora,” Harris says.Learning about that history “is the richness of the experience of going to Howard University.”

“And it is sadly an experience that a lot of people don’t have.”

A shared language

Less than 24 hours after Harris said her piece on that "Gone With the Wind” porch in Columbia, S.C., a drum line greets the candidate as she descends the escalator into the dreary bowels of the Metropolitan Convention Center.Harris, in an ecru plaid suit and understated necklace, still loves to dance.A group of bright-eyed munchkins from Killian Elementary School rat-a-tat-tat a welcome on snare drums as Harris steps onto a mini-stage.They’re a language shared by Harris and this state’s black voters who possess outsize clout in the Democratic nomination.And Harris wants to make something clear: She’s a proud graduate of Howard.I have nowhere to go.”

READING LIST

“Kamala Harris grew up in a mostly white world.2020 Democratic primary (WSJ-NBC, 506 registered voters)

First choice

Joe Biden — 31% ( 5)

Elizabeth Warren — 25% ( 6)

Bernie Sanders — 14% ( 1)

Pete Buttigieg — 7% ( 0)

Kamala Harris — 5% (-8)

Andrew Yang — 4% ( 2)

Amy Klobuchar — 2% ( 1)

Cory Booker — 2% ( 1)

Beto O’Rourke — 1% (-1)

Tulsi Gabbard — 1% ( 1)

John Delaney — 1% ( 0)

Tom Steyer — 1% ( 1)

Michael Bennet — 1% ( 0)

Bill de Blasio — 1% ( 1)

Julián Castro — 1% ( 0)

Second choice

Elizabeth Warren — 21% ( 8)

Bernie Sanders — 16% ( 4)

Pete Buttigieg — 12% ( 4)

Joe Biden — 11% ( 1)

Kamala Harris — 8% (-6)

Beto O’Rourke — 5% ( 3)

Cory Booker — 4% ( 2)

Andrew Yang — 2% ( 1)

Tulsi Gabbard — 1% (-2)

Julián Castro — 1% (-1)



This newsletter doesn’t often get into national polling; there’s no national primary, and most of these candidates are unlikely to make it through the first month of voting.She delivered an address to at least 20,000 people in New York on Monday, the largest gathering for any Democrat of the campaign so far since Kamala Harris's campaign launch.POWER PLAYS

More on the strike in Saudi Arabia:

Trump stops short of directly blaming Iran: While Trump wouldn’t say unambiguously that Iran was responsible for the attack on Saudi oil infrastructure, he told reporters in the Oval Office: “It’s looking that way.” “Trump’s reluctance to assign blame appeared to reflect his long-standing desire to keep the United States out of wars, despite his tweet Sunday that the United States was ‘locked and loaded depending on verification,’” The Post’s Shane Harris, Erin Cunningham and Kareem Fahim report.While Trump wouldn’t say unambiguously that Iran was responsible for the attack on Saudi oil infrastructure, he told reporters in the Oval Office: “It’s looking that way.” “Trump’s reluctance to assign blame appeared to reflect his long-standing desire to keep the United States out of wars, despite his tweet Sunday that the United States was ‘locked and loaded depending on verification,’” The Post’s Shane Harris, Erin Cunningham and Kareem Fahim report.— At some point (as Sen. Ted Cruz and Carly Fiorina did in 2016), do a couple of the younger candidates team up (e.g., Harris-Buttigieg, Booker-O’Rourke, Harris-Klobuchar) to make an explicit plea to the party to pass the torch?“For their part, Saudi officials affirmed that Iranian weapons were used in the attack but also stopped short of singling out Iran in statements that appeared to reflect fears across the Persian Gulf of a wider and more violent conflagration,” our colleagues Shane Harris, Erin Cunningham and Kareem Fahim report.Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Kamala Harris of California, former housing and urban development secretary Julián Castro and former congressman Beto O'Rourke of Texas.He favours gun regulations and was a signatory to a letter from some 400 mayors condemning President Trump's withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord Vice News 10/22 Kirsten Gillibrand The New York Senator formally announced her presidential bid in January, saying that “healthcare should be a right, not a privilege” Getty 11/22 Kamala Harris The former California attorney general will be running for president in 2020.He favours gun regulations and was a signatory to a letter from some 400 mayors condemning President Trump's withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord Vice News 10/22 Kirsten Gillibrand The New York Senator formally announced her presidential bid in January, saying that “healthcare should be a right, not a privilege” Getty 11/22 Kamala Harris The former California attorney general will be running for president in 2020.THE FUNNIES

From The Post's Tom Toles:

BULL SESSION

Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) slow-jammed the news on NBC's "The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon":Country Music explores questions –– such as “What is country music?” and “Where did it come from?“–– while focusing on the biographies of the fascinating characters who created and shaped it — from the Carter Family, Jimmie Rodgers and Bob Wills to Hank Williams, Patsy Cline, Johnny Cash, Merle Haggard, Loretta Lynn, Charley Pride, Willie Nelson, Dolly Parton, Emmylou Harris, Garth Brooks and many more — as well as the times in which they lived.First, Harris pointed to the wrongdoing in the executive branch.He answered, “The White House.” Harris argues that the White House did the “orchestrating, choreographing, curating” of evidence, in effect “suppressing evidence.”

On Tuesday, she sent a letter to House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerold Nadler (D-N.Y.) requesting that he investigate the limits put on the investigation and whether there were discrepancies in Kavanaugh’s testimony.Harris’s second point was equally compelling: The charade not only damaged the integrity of the court but also played a cruel joke on the victims of sexual assault.AD

AD

Harris suggested that if the Congress won’t act, a special prosecutor could be named.This episode points to one of Harris’s underlying strengths, namely the ability to see policy from the point of view of the victim, the vulnerable and the powerless.Kamala Harris, for instance, seems like a capable public servant with much to recommend her, but her campaign has been hampered by her inability to offer a guiding theme, a rationale for her candidacy that communicates to voters why she and only she ought to be the nominee.A September 18 Survey USA poll confirmed that Biden does best, followed by Sanders followed by Warren, followed by Harris.But they also included former Rep. Beto O’Rourke, who does even worse than Harris.They didn’t include O’Rourke, but they did include South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg, who does worse than Harris.There can’t really be 10 percent of the population who’d happily vote for Biden but refuse to vote for Harris.The difference between Biden crushing him by 14 and Harris narrowly winning (and likely losing the Electoral College) by 2 is almost entirely because there are more undecideds in the Harris sample.But the reason so many people are undecided when you ask about Harris, O’Rourke, and Buttigieg is lots of people don’t know who they are.Kamala Harris and Cory Booker have veered a bit to the left; Sen. Amy Klobuchar and Montana Gov.He’s even adopted Obama’s penchant for a singsong intonation at the end of a phrase, and the 44th president’s famous whistling “s.”

“And let’s talk about a presidency,” Buttigieg adds, “in which freedom means more than cutting a regulation on a bank somewhere.”

[Kamala Harris grew up in a mostly white world.Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) attracted an estimated 20,000 people to Oakland for her campaign kickoff rally but nothing that big since then.), Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.), former Rep. Beto O’Rourke (Tex.)Harris and Warren called for impeachment hearings.), Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), former Housing and Urban Development secretary Julián Castro and Marianne Williamson — have expressed support for the concept of paying reparations to the descendants of slaves.), Sen. Kamala D. Harris (Calif.), former Rep. Beto O’Rourke (Tex.)That’s why, if you assume that Medicare-for-all means simply bringing everyone into Medicare as it exists today, the closest thing would be Kamala D. Harris’s plan, which allows for something like Medicare Advantage.(If electability is defined in that sense, a Warren-Kamala Harris ticket or Warren-Stacey Abrams might be ideal.)Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) could copy his promise to take away AR-15s tomorrow without any perception that she was late to the issue of gun control.“More than 1,000 high water rescues were conducted in Harris County alone, according to the county’s fire marshal.” The storm has left at least two people dead as the heavy down pour “shut down major roadways, triggered hundreds of calls for help and invited comparisons to Hurricane Harvey of 2017 as Gov.The poll shows Warren leading the pack with 22 percent of the vote, with Biden, Sen. Bernie Sanders, South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg and Sen. Kamala D. Harris all trailing her at 20 percent, 11 percent, 9 percent and 6 percent, respectively.AD

AD

The new rule was vigorously opposed by a group of 23 Democratic Senators, including all of the 2020 candidates from that chamber: Bernie Sanders, Amy Klobuchar, Elizabeth Warren, Cory Booker and Kamala Harris.One item in the $391 million package Congress appropriated is a secure system made by L3 Technologies, a unit of Harris Corp., that could allow the Ukrainians to maintain contact despite Russian interference.In 1889 he became a civil service commissioner under President Benjamin Harrison.